arXiv:2008.12284v2  [cs.LG]  28 Aug 2020
learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research
Sébastien M. R. Arnold ∗1 , Praateek Mahajan 2, Debajyoti Datta 3, Ian
Bunner4, and Konstantinos Saitas Zarkias 5
1 University of Southern California 2 Iterable, Inc. 3 University of Virginia 3 University of
Waterloo 5 KTH Royal Institute of Technology and RISE - Research Instit utes of Sweden, SICSWebsite:
http://learn2learn.net
Software
• Repository
• Documentation
• Tutorials
Licence
Authors of this paper retain
copyright and release the work
under a Creative Commons At-
tribution 4.0 International Li-
cense (
CC-BY).
Abstract
Meta-learning researchers face two fundamental issues in t heir empirical work:
prototyping and reproducibility. Researchers are prone to make mistakes when pro-
totyping new algorithms and tasks because modern meta-lear ning methods rely on
unconventional functionalities of machine learning frame works. In turn, reproducing
existing results becomes a tedious endeavour – a situation e xacerbated by the lack
of standardized implementations and benchmarks. As a resul t, researchers spend
inordinate amounts of time on implementing software rather than understanding and
developing new ideas.
This manuscript introduces learn2learn, a library for meta-learning research
focused on solving those prototyping and reproducibility i ssues. learn2learn pro-
vides low-level routines common across a wide-range of meta -learning techniques
(e.g. meta-descent, meta-reinforcement learning, few-sh ot learning), and builds stan-
dardized interfaces to algorithms and benchmarks on top of t hem. In releasing
learn2learn under a free and open source license, we hope to foster a commu -
nity around standardized software for meta-learning resea rch.
Introduction
Meta-learning is the subﬁeld of machine learning that endow s computer programs with
the ability of learning to learn. That is, the computer not on ly learns a behavior, but
also how to adapt its behavior. To illustrate this diﬀerence , let us make an anology with
the world of athleticism. If a learning program is akin to an a thlete, a meta-learning
program corresponds to the athlete-coach pair: it simultan eously learns a skill and how
to teach it best. Meta-learning is appealing whenever the at hlete is required to excel
in multiple sports, as the coach can leverage shared aspects of each sport to accelerate
mastery. Recent meta-learning methods emerged from this na tural ability to multitask –
e.g. meta-descent in optimization, meta-reinforcement le arning in reinforcement learning,
and few-shot learning when labelled data is limited – reachi ng state-of-the-art performance
on vision, language, and robotic domains. (Sutton 1992; Dua n, Schulman, et al. 2016;
Miller, Matsakis, and Viola 2000; Lee et al. 2019; Brown et al . 2020; Metz et al. 2019;
Nagabandi et al. 2018)
∗ Correspondance to seb.arnold@usc.edu
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 1
Unfortunately, modern meta-learning research is often slo wed down by prototyping and
reproducibility challenges. Prototyping algorithms is an error-prone process since meta-
learning algorithms rely on supported but exotic functiona lities of machine learning software.
(e.g. gradient of optimization steps) Consequently, a slow prototyping phase reduces the
number of ideas one can try and retain. It also directly impac ts reproducibility: researchers
are more likely to make mistake with someone else’s idea than with their own. Combined,
those pesky issues prevent meaningful comparisons across p ublications, ultimately reducing
the impact of any publication in the ﬁeld.
Why do we suﬀer prototyping and reproducibility issues?
Although a complete answer is outside the scope of this manus cript, we blame the lack
of specialized software as a major culprit. A software libra ry with specialized subroutines
would reduce gaﬀes when prototyping, improving reproducib ility too. A widely-adopted
library also promotes standardized implementation of exis ting methods and benchmarks,
an issue in prior research; for example, the community lost t he original mini-ImageNet data
splits from Vinyals et al. (2016), leaving subsequent work t o replicate them as best they
could. In summary, there is a need for a specialized software library which would alleviate
many of the issues currently plaguing meta-learning resear ch.
We introduce learn2learn, a software library that directly addresses prototyping an d re-
productibility issues in meta-learning research. learn2learn provides researchers with a
uniﬁed and extensible interface to existing benchmarks, an d a set of well-tested subroutines
frequently used to implement meta-learning algorithms. Th e library also packages numer-
ous examples replicating published methods, which can easi ly be adapted for comparisons
on new benchmarks. learn2learn is implemented in Python to maintain compatiblity
with the greater machine learning ecosystem. It extends PyT orch (Paszke et al. 2019) and
leverages its fast linear algebra and automatic diﬀerentia tion capabilites, while resorting
to Cython (Behnel et al. 2011) when speed is required for data -handling. learn2learn
is already used in our day-to-day research, and we hope its de velopment will continue to
beneﬁt the wider meta-learning community.
The remainder of this document overviews the prototyping an d reproducibility capabilities
of learn2learn, including a review of related work.
Prototyping
Prototyping is essential in letting researchers quickly tr y new ideas. The faster the pro-
totyping phase, the faster an idea can be retained (or discar ded) for further exploration.
learn2learn provides tools to accelerate two aspects of the prototyping phase: algorithms
and domains.
Algorithms
Implementing meta-learning algorithms can be tricky. For e xample, many methods rely
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 2
on computing gradients of algorithms – rather than gradient s of functions – which, while
possible with modern machine learning frameworks (e.g. PyT orch, TensorFlow, JAX), is
strenuous and prone to errors. (Finn, Abbeel, and Levine 201 7; Jacobsen et al. 2019;
Xu, Hasselt, and Silver 2018) However, this doesn’t need be t he case: many diﬀerentiable
algorithms can be implemented with minor changes when given the right abstractions. 1
1 learned_upda te = l2l . optim . ParameterUpd a te (
2 model . parameters () ,
3 l2l . optim . KroneckerT r an s fo rm ( l2l . nn .KroneckerLin ea r )
4 )
5 clone = l2l . clone_module ( model ) # torch . clone () for nn . Modules
6 updates = learned_upda te ( # similar API as torch . autograd . grad
7 loss ( clone ( X ) , y ) ,
8 clone . parameters () ,
9 create_graph = True ,
10 )
11 # in - place , differentiab le update of clone parameters
12 l2l . update_modul e ( clone , updates )
13 # gradients w . r . t model 's and learned_upda te 's parameters
14 loss ( clone ( X ) , y ) . backward ()
Snippet 1: Demonstration of diﬀerentiable optimization routines. Li nes 1-4 instantiate a param-
eterized update function, which computes the gradient of a l oss w.r.t. some module’s parameters
(clone, line 8) and passes them through a gradient transform – a module mapping gradients to
updates. (here a KroneckerLinear, line 3) Line 5 creates a diﬀerentiable copy of the model,
and line 11 updates that copy in-place such that the update is itself diﬀerentiable. Finally, line
13 backpropagates through the loss of the updated diﬀerenti able copy, thus computing gradients
w.r.t. the "pre-update" model parameters and the KroneckerLinear parameters.
To ease the implementation of such methods, learn2learn exposes low-level routines for
diﬀerentiable optimization in learn2learn.optim. These routines are tightly built around
PyTorch’s automatic diﬀerentiation engine, so as to mainta in compatibility and extensibil-
ity. They can be used to express optimization algorithms suc h that their computational
graph remains diﬀerentiable. Snippet 1 provides an example , which implements the 1-
step learning loop of the linear Kronecker-factored optimi zer from Arnold, Iqbal, and Sha
(2019). (Note how both model and optimizer parameters are me ta-learned; implement-
ing the same functionality with vanilla PyTorch requires 10 x the lines of code.) We’ve
used those general-purpose routines to implement algorith ms from the literatures of few-
shot, meta-descent, and meta-reinforcement learning – inc luding MAML (Finn, Abbeel,
and Levine 2017), Hypergradient descent (Baydin et al. 2017 ), or ProMP (Rothfuss et al.
2018) among others.
Domains
Researchers have to design new domains – such as datasets, ta sks, or environments –
to develop and test new abilities of their programs. We refer to this other aspect of
1See for example Agrawal et al. (2019).
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 3
the research lifecycle as prototyping new domains . learn2learn can help prototype new
domains for few-shot and meta-reinforcement learning.
1 dataset = l2l . data . MetaDataset ( MyDataset () ) # PyTorch dataset
2 transforms = [ # easy to define custom task transforms
3 l2l . data . transforms . NWays ( dataset , n =5) ,
4 l2l . data . transforms . KShots ( dataset , k =1) ,
5 l2l . data . transforms . LoadData ( dataset ) ,
6 lambda task : [( random_rota t io n ( x ) , y ) for x , y in task ]
7 ]
8 taskset = l2l . data . TaskDataset ( dataset ,
9 transforms ,
10 num_tasks =20000)
11 random_task = taskset . sample () # sample one task
12 for task in taskset : # iterate over all tasks
13 X , y = task
Snippet 2: The interface to TaskDataset and TaskTransform. Line 1 wraps an arbitrary
PyTorch dataset with the MetaDataset class. Lines 2-7 deﬁne TaskTransforms: here, 5-ways
1-shot classiﬁcation with a custom random-rotation task au gmentation applied to each (x, y) pair.
Lines 8-10 instantiate the TaskDataset, from which tasks can be sampled (line 11) or enumerated
(lines 12-13).
For few-shot meta-learning, learn2learn provides a general TaskDataset class enabling
sampling of smaller tasks in learn2learn.data. Those tasks are constructed through a
series of TaskTransforms, which iteratively reﬁne the description of the data in the task.
Writing a new task transform is as easy as writing a Python fun ction, but those functions
can be made arbitrarily complex thanks to Python’s callable objects. See Snippet 2 for an
example. With the combination of TaskDataset and TaskTransforms, researchers can
quickly develop fast custom data and task sampling schemes, while retaining compatibility
with any PyTorch dataset; this lets them quickly iterate ove r ideas with small datasets and
scale up to larger experiments with the same codebase.
1 def make_env () :
2 env = l2l . gym . H a l f C h e e t a h F o r w a r d B a c k w a r d E n v()
3 return cherry . envs . StateNormali ze r ( env )
4
5 # use 16 processes , compatible with gym API
6 env = l2l . gym . AsyncVectorE nv ([ make_env for i in range (16) ])
7 tasks = env . sample_tasks (20)
8 env . set_task ( tasks [0]) # all processes run task 0
Snippet 3: Utilities for meta-reinforcement learning environments. Lines 1-3 instantiate the half-
cheetah environment, with tasks deﬁned as running forward o r backward. This environment is
then wrapped by cherry, an external reinforcement learning library. Line 6 forks 16 asynchronous
workers, each with its own copy of the half-cheetah environm ent. Finally, lines 7-8 sample 20 tasks
and assign the ﬁrst one to all workers.
For meta-reinforcement learning, learn2learn provides a high-level MetaEnv interface
in learn2learn.gym which can be used to bootstrap the design of OpenAI Gym en-
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 4
vironments. (Brockman et al. 2016) Environments that adher e to this interface can
take advantage of specially designed utilities included in learn2learn; for example, the
AsyncVectorEnv wrapper parallelizes the collection of episodes across mul tiple processes.
(c.f. Snippet 3) Such environments also retain the Gym API, m aking them compatible
with all popular reinforcement learning libraries. (Dhari wal et al. 2017; Duan, Chen, et
al. 2016; Liang et al. 2017) Naturally, they also become comp atible with the various
meta-reinforcement learning algorithms implemented with in the library.
The core prototyping tools toured in the above paragraphs op en the door to more advanced
developments such as online, incremental, or lifelong meta -learning. While this manuscript
can only present a bird’s-eye view of those tools, we invite t he reader to the library’s
website and documentation for such advanced applications.
Reproducibility
The ﬁeld of meta-learning is advancing rapidly, but progres s is plagued by reproducibility
issues. Those issues are often subtle and hard to spot. In met a-reinforcement learning for
example, diﬀerent papers have used diﬀerent reward functio ns with the same environment,
resulting in confusing comparisons: are the observed impro vements due to algorithmic
advancements or to changes in the reward function? To combat those insiduous issues,
learn2learn includes a set of high-quality implementations for various meta-learning algo-
rithms as well as standardized benchmarks for few-shot and m eta-reinforcement learning.
1 meta_sgd = l2l . algorithms . GBML (
2 model ,
3 l2l . optim . ModuleTrans fo rm ( l2l . nn .Scale ) ,
4 )
5 meta_curvatu re = l2l . algorithms . GBML (
6 model ,
7 l2l . optim . M e t a C u r v a t u r e T r a n s f o r m,
8 )
9 meta_kfo = l2l . algorithms . GBML (
10 model ,
11 l2l . optim . KroneckerT r an s fo rm ( l2l . nn .KroneckerLin ea r ) ,
12 adapt_trans f or m = True ,
13 )
Snippet 4: Implementation of Meta-SGD (lines 1-4), Meta-Curvature (l ines 5-8), and Meta-KFO
(lines 9-13) with the GBML wrapper. Each variant diﬀers in how the fast-adaptation gra dients are
transformed, which is reﬂected through the transform and adapt_transform arguments.
Implementations
learn2learn provides high-level implementations for popular algorithms. These implemen-
tations build on top of the low-level routines from the previ ous section, and are thoroughly
tested to replicate published works. They typically wrap ar ound PyTorch modules to extend
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 5
them with speciﬁc meta-learning functionalities. For exam ple, the LearnableOptimizer
retains the familiar PyTorch Optimizer interface and extends it to learn arbitrary meta-
optimization updates; similarly, the GBML augments PyTorch Modules to support fast-
adaptation routines for few-shot and meta-reinforcement l earning. GBML implementations
of Meta-SGD, Meta-Curvature, Meta-KFO are available in Sni ppet 4. (Li et al. 2017;
Park and Oliva 2019; Arnold, Iqbal, and Sha 2019)
With those high-level implementations and the standardize d benchmark interface described
below, we supply examples that exactly reproduce published experiments. Those examples
serve three purposes. First, they validate the correctness of our implementation and a
publication’s claims; second, they illustrate how to use th e library; third, they ﬁll the need
for uniﬁed standardized reproductions. As a by-product, th ose examples can be used to
bootstrap further experimentation and analysis around a me thod of interest. For example,
we could easily complement ANIL’s (Raghu et al. 2019) origin al results on the Omniglot
(Lake, Salakhutdinov, and Tenenbaum 2015) and mini-Imagen et (Vinyals et al. 2016)
datasets with new results on CIFAR-FS (Bertinetto et al. 201 8) and FC100 (Oreshkin,
Rodríguez López, and Lacoste 2018).
1 from learn2learn . vision import benchmarks
2 print ( benchmarks . list_tasksets () )
3 # [ ' omniglot ', ' cifar - fs ', ' fc100 ', ' mini - imagenet ', ... ]
4 tasksets = benchmarks . get_tasksets ( # standardized pipeline
5 name = ' mini - imagenet ' ,
6 train_sample s =10 ,
7 train_ways =5)
8 task = tasksets . train . sample () # tasksets . train is a task dataset
Snippet 5: High-level API to standardized computer vision benchmarks . Line 2 prints the list
of available tasksets. On lines 4-7, we instantiate the 5-wa ys 5-shots mini-ImageNet benchmark,
which returns the tasksets namedtuple with train, validation, and test keys. Line 8
samples a task from the train TaskDataset.
Benchmarks
We use the low-level domains API to implement standard bench marks in few-shot and
meta-reinforcement learning settings. For few-shot learn ing, learn2learn provides
classes to download and preprocess datasets commonly used b y the community in
learn2learn.vision. In addition, it also includes task deﬁnitions with the prop er
task-processing stages (image normalization, rotation, c ropping) for commonly reported
settings such as 5-ways 1-shot, 5-ways 5-shots, and 20-ways 5-shots. An example of those
task deﬁnitions is described in Snippet 5.
The meta-reinforcement learning environments range from s imple 2D-particle navigation to
robotics control. In particular, we include simple to use wr appers for the recently proposed
MetaWorld, a set of 50 gripper manipulation tasks with varyi ng levels of diﬃculty. Those
benchmark implementations should greatly simplify the rep lication and comparison of new
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 6
methods on well-studied settings. They, and other meta-rei nforcement learning utilities,
are included in learn2learn.gym.
Combined with the provided implementations, we hope learn2learn enables researchers
to accelerate the process of correctly comparing their idea s against existing methods.
Related Work
Disparate implementations of individual algorithms set as ide, two recent libraries tackle
similar challenges as learn2learn.
The ﬁrst one, higher (Grefenstette et al. 2019), aims to facilitate the implemen tation of
“generalized inner-loop meta-algorithms” – in other words , the implementation of diﬀeren-
tiable optimization algorithms. higher treats a model deﬁnition (e.g. a neural network)
as a symbolic computational graph, for which they use one set of parameters or another
based on user-speciﬁed context. This “stateless” paramete rization is as expressive as the
learn2learn.optim submodule – after all, both are implemented on top of PyTorch –
but requires researchers to carefully understand when they are working with symbolic or
declarative parts of their computation. Instead, learn2learn sticks with a stateful and
declarative style, already familiar to the PyTorch researc h userbase. Moreover, higher
completely forgoes reproducibility issues as its focus is o n the implementation of novel
algorithms.
The second one, Torchmeta (Deleu et al. 2019), intends to provide a uniﬁed interface
to popular datasets, including classes to easily download a nd process them. Speciﬁcally,
it focuses on standardized few-shot computer vision tasks, allowing researchers to easily
swap one dataset for another. However, supporting new datas ets with Torchmeta requires
implementing a bridging class, even if the dataset is alread y in standard PyTorch format.
On the other hand, learn2learn’s TaskDataset explicitly avoids such bridging classes,
and is designed to be compatible with any PyTorch dataset (in cluding text, speech, and
others). Torchmeta also povides a thin algorithmic wrapper to demonstrate the u sage of
their library with gradient-based meta-learning algorith ms; but, this wrapper is not compat-
ible with the majority of PyTorch’s layers, nor custom modul es implemented by researchers.
In comparison, learn2learn’s diﬀerentiable optimization submodule uniformly handle s all
PyTorch Modules (including custom ones), making it a more applicable resea rch tool.
Overall, learn2learn oﬀers a more general solution to the prototyping and reprodu ciblity
issues encountered in day-to-day research. For example, at the time of this writing, neither
of the above libraries supports meta-descent or meta-reinf orcement learning.
Conclusion
This manuscript introduces learn2learn, a library that tackles prototyping and repro-
ducibility issues in modern meta-learning. learn2learn’s low-level routines facilitate rapid
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 7
prototyping of new algorithms and domains. The library buil ds on those low-level routines
to provide high-level implementations and standardized be nchmarks API, which enable
researchers to easily and faithfully compare diﬀerent meth ods under diﬀerent settings. No-
tably, both low- and high-level utilities are engineered to be general: they are compatible
with a wide range of meta-learning techniques in few-shot le arning, meta-reinforcement
learning, or meta-optimization. Finally, learn2learn is released under the free and open
source MIT licence, and the focus of continued development.
Acknowledgements
We thank Fei Sha for providing excellent research environme nt and guidance, and for
the computational resources required to develop learn2learn. We also thank the var-
ious users who – through their questions, comments, or contr ibutions – helped improve
learn2learn.
This work is partially supported by NSF IIS-1065243,1451412, 1513966/ 1632803/1833137,
1208500, CCF-1139148,DARPA Award#: FA8750-18-2-0117, DA RPA-D3M - AwardUCB-
00009528, Google Research Awards, an Alfred P. SloanResear ch Fellowship, gifts from
Facebook and Netﬂix, and ARO#W911NF-12-1-0241 and W911NF- 15-1-0484.
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 8
References
Agrawal, A., B. Amos, S. Barratt, S. Boyd, S. Diamond, and Z. K olter. 2019. “Dif-
ferentiable Convex Optimization Layers.” In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems.
Arnold, Sébastien M R, Shariq Iqbal, and Fei Sha. 2019. “When MAML Can Adapt Fast
and How to Assist When It Cannot,” October.
Baydin, Atilim Gunes, Robert Cornish, David Martinez Rubio , Mark Schmidt, and Frank
Wood. 2017. “Online Learning Rate Adaptation with Hypergra dient Descent,” March.
Behnel, Stefan, Robert Bradshaw, Craig Citro, Lisandro Dal cin, Dag Sverre Seljebotn,
and Kurt Smith. 2011. “Cython: The Best of Both Worlds.” Computing in Science &
Engineering 13 (2). IEEE: 31–39.
Bertinetto, Luca, Joao F Henriques, Philip Torr, and Andrea Vedaldi. 2018. “Meta-
Learning with Diﬀerentiable Closed-Form Solvers.”
Brockman, Greg, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Sch neider, John Schulman, Jie
Tang, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2016. “OpenAI Gym,” June.
Brown, Tom B, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Ja red Kaplan, Prafulla
Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, et al. 2020. “Language Model s Are Few-Shot Learners,”
May.
Deleu, Tristan, Tobias Würﬂ, Mandana Samiei, Joseph Paul Co hen, and Yoshua Bengio.
2019. “Torchmeta: A Meta-Learning Library for PyTorch,” Se ptember.
Dhariwal, Prafulla, Christopher Hesse, Oleg Klimov, Alex N ichol, Matthias Plappert, Alec
Radford, John Schulman, Szymon Sidor, Yuhuai Wu, and Peter Z hokhov. 2017. “OpenAI
Baselines.” GitHub Repository .
Duan, Yan, Xi Chen, Rein Houthooft, John Schulman, and Piete r Abbeel. 2016. “Bench-
marking Deep Reinforcement Learning for Continuous Contro l,” April.
Duan, Yan, John Schulman, Xi Chen, Peter L Bartlett, Ilya Sut skever, and Pieter Abbeel.
2016. “RL 2: Fast Reinforcement Learning via Slow Reinforcement Learn ing,” November.
Finn, Chelsea, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. 2017. “Mod el-Agnostic Meta-Learning
for Fast Adaptation of Deep Networks.” arXiv Preprint arXiv:1703. 03400 .
Grefenstette, Edward, Brandon Amos, Denis Yarats, Phu Mon H tut, Artem Molchanov,
Franziska Meier, Douwe Kiela, Kyunghyun Cho, and Soumith Ch intala. 2019. “Generalized
Inner Loop Meta-Learning,” October.
Jacobsen, Andrew, Matthew Schlegel, Cameron Linke, Thomas Degris, Adam White, and
Martha White. 2019. “Meta-Descent for Online, Continual Pr ediction,” July.
Lake, Brenden M, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Joshua B Tenenba um. 2015. “Human-Level
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 9
Concept Learning Through Probabilistic Program Induction .” Science 350 (6266): 1332–8.
Lee, Kwonjoon, Subhransu Maji, Avinash Ravichandran, and S tefano Soatto. 2019. “Meta-
Learning with Diﬀerentiable Convex Optimization,” April.
Li, Zhenguo, Fengwei Zhou, Fei Chen, and Hang Li. 2017. “Meta -SGD: Learning to Learn
Quickly for Few-Shot Learning,” July.
Liang, Eric, Richard Liaw, Philipp Moritz, Robert Nishihar a, Roy Fox, Ken Goldberg,
Joseph E Gonzalez, Michael I Jordan, and Ion Stoica. 2017. “R Llib: Abstractions for
Distributed Reinforcement Learning,” December.
Metz, Luke, Niru Maheswaranathan, Jonathon Shlens, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, and Ekin D
Cubuk. 2019. “Using Learned Optimizers to Make Models Robus t to Input Noise,” June.
Miller, E G, N E Matsakis, and P A Viola. 2000. “Learning from O ne Example Through
Shared Densities on Transforms.” In Proceedings IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition. CVPR 2000 (Cat. No.PR00662) , 1:464–71 vol.1.
Nagabandi, Anusha, Ignasi Clavera, Simin Liu, Ronald S Fear ing, Pieter Abbeel, Sergey
Levine, and Chelsea Finn. 2018. “Learning to Adapt in Dynami c, Real-World Environments
Through Meta-Reinforcement Learning,” March.
Oreshkin, Boris, Pau Rodríguez López, and Alexandre Lacost e. 2018. “TADAM: Task
Dependent Adaptive Metric for Improved Few-Shot Learning. ” In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 31 , edited by S Bengio, H Wallach, H Larochelle, K
Grauman, N Cesa-Bianchi, and R Garnett, 721–31. Curran Asso ciates, Inc.
Park, Eunbyung, and Junier B Oliva. 2019. “Meta-Curvature, ” February.
Paszke, Adam, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory
Chanan, Trevor Killeen, et al. 2019. “PyTorch: An Imperativ e Style, High-Performance
Deep Learning Library.” In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32 , edited
by H Wallach, H Larochelle, A Beygelzimer, F d’Alché-Buc, E F ox, and R Garnett, 8026–37.
Curran Associates, Inc.
Raghu, Aniruddh, Maithra Raghu, Samy Bengio, and Oriol Viny als. 2019. “Rapid Learning
or Feature Reuse? Towards Understanding the Eﬀectiveness o f MAML,” September.
Rothfuss, Jonas, Dennis Lee, Ignasi Clavera, Tamim Asfour, and Pieter Abbeel. 2018.
“ProMP: Proximal Meta-Policy Search.”
Sutton, Richard S. 1992. “Adapting Bias by Gradient Descent : An Incremental Version of
Delta-Bar-Delta,” June.
Vinyals, Oriol, Charles Blundell, Timothy Lillicrap, Kora y Kavukcuoglu, and Daan Wierstra.
2016. “Matching Networks for One Shot Learning.” In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 29 , edited by D D Lee, M Sugiyama, U V Luxburg, I Guyon, and R
Garnett, 3630–8. Curran Associates, Inc.
Xu, Zhongwen, Hado van Hasselt, and David Silver. 2018. “Met a-Gradient Reinforcement
Learning,” May.
Arnold et al., (2020). learn2learn: A Library for Meta-Learning Research. Preprint 10