                                                Learning to Separate Object Sounds by




arXiv:1804.01665v2 [cs.CV] 26 Jul 2018
                                                      Watching Unlabeled Video

                                                        Ruohan Gao1 , Rogerio Feris2 , Kristen Grauman3
                                          1
                                              The University of Texas at Austin, 2 IBM Research, 3 Facebook AI Research
                                                  rhgao@cs.utexas.edu, rsferis@us.ibm.com, grauman@fb.com??



                                               Abstract. Perceiving a scene most fully requires all the senses. Yet
                                               modeling how objects look and sound is challenging: most natural scenes
                                               and events contain multiple objects, and the audio track mixes all the
                                               sound sources together. We propose to learn audio-visual object models
                                               from unlabeled video, then exploit the visual context to perform au-
                                               dio source separation in novel videos. Our approach relies on a deep
                                               multi-instance multi-label learning framework to disentangle the audio
                                               frequency bases that map to individual visual objects, even without ob-
                                               serving/hearing those objects in isolation. We show how the recovered
                                               disentangled bases can be used to guide audio source separation to obtain
                                               better-separated, object-level sounds. Our work is the first to learn audio
                                               source separation from large-scale “in the wild” videos containing multi-
                                               ple audio sources per video. We obtain state-of-the-art results on visually-
                                               aided audio source separation and audio denoising. Our video results:
                                               http://vision.cs.utexas.edu/projects/separating_object_sounds/




                                                                                       separation
                                                                        audio                              sound of guitar




                                                                                                          sound of saxophone
                                                                        visual


                                                 Fig. 1. Goal: Learn from unlabeled video to separate object sounds



                                 1         Introduction
                                 Understanding scenes and events is inherently a multi-modal experience. We
                                 perceive the world by both looking and listening (and touching, smelling, and
                                 tasting). Objects generate unique sounds due to their physical properties and
                                 interactions with other objects and the environment. For example, perception of
                                 a coffee shop scene may include seeing cups, saucers, people, and tables, but also
                                 hearing the dishes clatter, the espresso machine grind, and the barista shouting
                              ??
                                         On leave from The University of Texas at Austin (grauman@cs.utexas.edu).
2       Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman

an order. Human developmental learning is also inherently multi-modal, with
young children quickly amassing a repertoire of objects and their sounds: dogs
bark, cats mew, phones ring.
    However, while recognition has made significant progress by “looking”—
detecting objects, actions, or people based on their appearance—it often does
not listen. Despite a long history of audio-visual video indexing [45,57,70,71,79],
objects in video are often analyzed as if they were silent entities in silent envi-
ronments. A key challenge is that in a realistic video, object sounds are observed
not as separate entities, but as a single audio channel that mixes all their fre-
quencies together. Audio source separation, though studied extensively in the
signal processing literature [25, 40, 76, 86], remains a difficult problem with nat-
ural data outside of lab settings. Existing methods perform best by capturing
the input with multiple microphones, or else assume a clean set of single source
audio examples is available for supervision (e.g., a recording of only a violin,
another recording containing only a drum, etc.), both of which are very limiting
prerequisites. The blind audio separation task evokes challenges similar to image
segmentation—and perhaps more, since all sounds overlap in the input signal.
    Our goal is to learn how different objects sound by both looking at and lis-
tening to unlabeled video containing multiple sounding objects. We propose an
unsupervised approach to disentangle mixed audio into its component sound
sources. The key insight is that observing sounds in a variety of visual con-
texts reveals the cues needed to isolate individual audio sources; the different
visual contexts lend weak supervision for discovering the associations. For ex-
ample, having experienced various instruments playing in various combinations
before, then given a video with a guitar and a saxophone (Fig. 1), one can
naturally anticipate what sounds could be present in the accompanying audio,
and therefore better separate them. Indeed, neuroscientists report that the mis-
match negativity of event-related brain potentials, which is generated bilaterally
within auditory cortices, is elicited only when the visual pattern promotes the
segregation of the sounds [63]. This suggests that synchronous presentation of
visual stimuli should help to resolve sound ambiguity due to multiple sources,
and promote either an integrated or segregated perception of the sounds.
    We introduce a novel audio-visual source separation approach that realizes
this intuition. Our method first leverages a large collection of unannotated videos
to discover a latent sound representation for each object. Specifically, we use
state-of-the-art image recognition tools to infer the objects present in each video
clip, and we perform non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) on each video’s
audio channel to recover its set of frequency basis vectors. At this point it is
unknown which audio bases go with which visible object(s). To recover the as-
sociation, we construct a neural network for multi-instance multi-label learning
(MIML) that maps audio bases to the distribution of detected visual objects.
From this audio basis-object association network, we extract the audio bases
linked to each visual object, yielding its prototypical spectral patterns. Finally,
given a novel video, we use the learned per-object audio bases to steer audio
source separation.
           Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video            3

    Prior attempts at visually-aided audio source separation tackle the problem
by detecting low-level correlations between the two data streams for the input
video [8, 12, 15, 27, 52, 61, 62, 64], and they experiment with somewhat controlled
domains of musical instruments in concert or human speakers facing the cam-
era. In contrast, we propose to learn object-level sound models from hundreds
of thousands of unlabeled videos, and generalize to separate new audio-visual
instances. We demonstrate results for a broad set of “in the wild” videos. While
a resurgence of research on cross-modal learning from images and audio also cap-
italizes on synchronized audio-visual data for various tasks [3, 4, 5, 47, 49, 59, 60],
they treat the audio as a single monolithic input, and thus cannot associate
different sounds to different objects in the same video.
    The main contributions in this paper are as follows. Firstly, we propose to
enhance audio source separation in videos by “supervising” it with visual infor-
mation from image recognition results1 . Secondly, we propose a novel deep multi-
instance multi-label learning framework to learn prototypical spectral patterns
of different acoustic objects, and inject the learned prior into an NMF source
separation framework. Thirdly, to our knowledge, we are the first to study audio
source separation learned from large scale online videos. We demonstrate state-
of-the-art results on visually-aided audio source separation and audio denoising.


2     Related Work

Localizing sounds in video frames The sound localization problem entails iden-
tifying which pixels or regions in a video are responsible for the recorded sound.
Early work on localization explored correlating pixels with sounds using mutual
information [27, 37] or multi-modal embeddings like canonical correlation anal-
ysis [47], often with assumptions that a sounding object is in motion. Beyond
identifying correlations for a single input video’s audio and visual streams, re-
cent work investigates learning associations from many such videos in order to
localize sounding objects [4]. Such methods typically assume that there is one
sound source, and the task is to localize the portion(s) of the visual content re-
sponsible for it. In contrast, our goal is to separate multiple audio sources from
a monoaural signal by leveraging learned audio-visual associations.
Audio-visual representation learning Recent work shows that image and audio
classification tasks can benefit from representation learning with both modal-
ities. Given unlabeled training videos, the audio channel can be used as free
self-supervision, allowing a convolutional network to learn features that tend to
gravitate to objects and scenes, resulting in improved image classification [3,60].
Working in the opposite direction, the SoundNet approach uses image classifier
predictions on unlabeled video frames to guide a learned audio representation for
improved audio scene classification [5]. For applications in cross-modal retrieval
or zero-shot classification, other methods aim to learn aligned representations
1
    Our task can hence be seen as “weakly supervised”, though the weak “labels” them-
    selves are inferred from the video, not manually annotated.
4      Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman

across modalities, e.g., audio, text, and visual [6]. Related to these approaches,
we share the goal of learning from unlabeled video with synchronized audio and
visual channels. However, whereas they aim to improve audio or image classifi-
cation, our method discovers associations in order to isolate sounds per object,
with the ultimate task of audio-visual source separation.
Audio source separation Audio source separation (from purely audio input) has
been studied for decades in the signal processing literature. Some methods as-
sume access to multiple microphones, which facilitates separation [20, 56, 82].
Others accept a single monoaural input [39,69,72,76,77] to perform “blind” sepa-
ration. Popular approaches include Independent Component Analysis (ICA) [40],
sparse decomposition [86], Computational Auditory Scene Analysis (CASA) [22],
non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) [25,26,51,76], probabilistic latent vari-
able models [38, 68], and deep learning [36, 39, 66]. NMF is a traditional method
that is still widely used for unsupervised source separation [31,41,44,72,75]. How-
ever, existing methods typically require supervision to get good results. Strong
supervision in the form of isolated recordings of individual sound sources [69,77]
is effective but difficult to secure for arbitrary sources in the wild. Alterna-
tively, “informed” audio source separation uses special-purpose auxiliary cues
to guide the process, such as a music score [35], text [50], or manual user guid-
ance [11, 19, 77]. Our approach employs an existing NMF optimization [26], cho-
sen for its efficiency, but unlike any of the above we tackle audio separation
informed by automatically detected visual objects.
Audio-visual source separation The idea of guiding audio source separation us-
ing visual information can be traced back to [15, 27], where mutual informa-
tion is used to learn the joint distribution of the visual and auditory signals,
then applied to isolate human speakers. Subsequent work explores audio-visual
subspace analysis [62, 67], NMF informed by visual motion [61, 65], statistical
convolutive mixture models [64], and correlating temporal onset events [8, 52].
Recent work [62] attempts both localization and separation simultaneously; how-
ever, it assumes a moving object is present and only aims to decompose a video
into background (assumed low-rank) and foreground sounds/pixels. Prior meth-
ods nearly always tackle videos of people speaking or playing musical instru-
ments [8, 12, 15, 27, 52, 61, 62, 64]—domains where salient motion signals accom-
pany audio events (e.g., a mouth or a violin bow starts moving, a guitar string
suddenly accelerates). Some studies further assume side cues from a written mu-
sical score [52], require that each sound source has a period when it alone is
active [12], or use ground-truth motion captured by MoCap [61].
    Whereas prior work correlates low-level visual patterns—particularly motion
and onset events—with the audio channel, we propose to learn from video how
different objects look and sound, whether or not an object moves with obvious
correlation to the sounds. Our method assumes access to visual detectors, but
assumes no side information about a novel test video. Furthermore, whereas
existing methods analyze a single input video in isolation and are largely con-
strained to human speakers and instruments, our approach learns a valuable
prior for audio separation from a large library of unlabeled videos.
          Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video          5

    Concurrent with our work, other new methods for audio-visual source sepa-
ration are being explored specifically for speech [1, 23, 28, 58] or musical instru-
ments [84]. In contrast, we study a broader set of object-level sounds including
instruments, animals, and vehicles. Moreover, our method’s training data re-
quirements are distinctly more flexible. We are the first to learn from uncurated
“in the wild” videos that contain multiple objects and multiple audio sources.
Generating sounds from video More distant from our work are methods that
aim to generate sounds from a silent visual input, using recurrent networks [59,
85], conditional generative adversarial networks (C-GANs) [13], or simulators
integrating physics, audio, and graphics engines [83]. Unlike any of the above,
our approach learns the association between how objects look and sound in order
to disentangle real audio sources; our method does not aim to synthesize sounds.
Weakly supervised visual learning Given unlabeled video, our approach learns to
disentangle which sounds within a mixed audio signal go with which recognizable
objects. This can be seen as a weakly supervised visual learning problem, where
the “supervision” in our case consists of automatically detected visual objects.
The proposed setting of weakly supervised audio-visual learning is entirely novel,
but at a high level it follows the spirit of prior work leveraging weak annotations,
including early “words and pictures” work [7,21], internet vision methods [9,73],
training weakly supervised object (activity) detectors [2,10,14,16,78], image cap-
tioning methods [18,46], or grounding acoustic units of spoken language to image
regions [32, 33]. In contrast to any of these methods, our idea is to learn sound
associations for objects from unlabeled video, and to exploit those associations
for audio source separation on new videos.

3     Approach
Our approach learns what objects sound like from a batch of unlabeled, multi-
sound-source videos. Given a new video, our method returns the separated audio
channels and the visual objects responsible for them.
   We first formalize the audio separation task and overview audio basis ex-
traction with NMF (Sec. 3.1). Then we introduce our framework for learning
audio-visual objects from unlabeled video (Sec. 3.2) and our accompanying deep
multi-instance multi-label network (Sec. 3.3). Next we present an approach to
use that network to associate audio bases with visual objects (Sec. 3.4). Finally,
we pose audio source separation for novel videos in terms of a semi-supervised
NMF approach (Sec. 3.5).

3.1   Audio Basis Extraction
Single-channel audio source separation is the problem of obtaining an estimate
for each of the J sources sj from the observed linear mixture x(t): x(t) =
PJ
   j=1 sj (t), where sj (t) are time-discrete signals. The mixture signal can be
                                                               ×N
transformed into a magnitude or power spectrogram V ∈ RF     +    consisting of F
frequency bins and N short-time Fourier transform (STFT) [30] frames, which
6            Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman


                                   STFT                      Non-negative Matrix
                                                                Factorization

                       Audio              Spectrogram                                     M Basis Vectors     Multi-Instance
                                                                                                            Multi-Label Learning

                                                        Visual Predictions   Top Labels       Guitar
    Unlabeled Video                                     from ResNet-152                     Saxophone

                          Visual


Fig. 2. Unsupervised training pipeline. For each video, we perform NMF on its au-
dio magnitude spectrogram to get M basis vectors. An ImageNet-trained ResNet-152
network is used to make visual predictions to find the potential objects present in
the video. Finally, we perform multi-instance multi-label learning to disentangle which
extracted audio basis vectors go with which detected visible object(s).


encode the change of a signal’s frequency and phase content over time. We oper-
ate on the frequency domain, and use the inverse short-time Fourier transform
(ISTFT) [30] to reconstruct the sources.
    Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) is often employed [25, 26, 51, 76] to
approximate the (non-negative real-valued) spectrogram matrix V as a product
of two matrices W and H:
                                 V ≈ Ṽ = WH,                                 (1)
                 ×M               ×N
where W ∈ RF   +     and H ∈ RM +    . The number of bases M is a user-defined
parameter. W can be interpreted as the non-negative audio spectral patterns,
and H can be seen as the activation matrix. Specifically, each column of W
is referred to as a basis vector, and each row in H represents the gain of the
corresponding basis vector. The factorization is usually obtained by solving the
following minimization problem:

                        min D(V|WH) subject to W ≥ 0, H ≥ 0,                                                               (2)
                        W,H

where D is a measure of divergence, e.g., we employ the Kullback-Leibler (KL)
divergence.
   For each unlabeled training video, we perform NMF independently on its
audio magnitude spectrogram to obtain its spectral patterns W, and throw
away the activation matrix H. M audio basis vectors are therefore extracted
from each video.

3.2       Weakly-Supervised Audio-Visual Object Learning Framework
Multiple objects can appear in an unlabeled video at the same time, and sim-
ilarly in the associated audio track. At this point, it is unknown which of the
audio bases extracted (columns of W) go with which visible object(s) in the
visual frames. To discover the association, we devise a multi-instance multi-label
learning (MIML) framework that matches audio bases with the detected objects.
    As shown in Fig. 2, given an unlabeled video, we extract its visual frames
and the corresponding audio track. As defined above, we perform NMF inde-
pendently on the magnitude spetrogram of each audio track and obtain M basis
                      Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video                                                                      7

                                       ith basis                          depth = M                                Audio Basis-Object
basis          FC + BN + ReLU
                                                                                                 depth = M           Relation Map
vector

basis          FC + BN + ReLU                                                                                 Max-Pooling over          Max-Pooling
vector                                                 1x1 Convolution                 Reshape
                     …                                                                                         sub-concepts             over bases
               shared weights                           BN + ReLU
         ...         ...         ...
basis          FC + BN + ReLU
vector
                                                                                                             KxL
basis          FC + BN + ReLU
vector                                      1024 x M                     (K x L) x M             KxLxM                           MxL                  L
         F                      1024


Fig. 3. Our deep multi-instance multi-label network takes a bag of M audio basis
vectors for each video as input, and gives a bag-level prediction of the objects present
in the audio. The visual predictions from an ImageNet-trained CNN are used as weak
“labels” to train the network with unlabeled video.


vectors from each video. For the visual frames, we use an ImageNet pre-trained
ResNet-152 network [34] to make object category predictions, and we max-pool
over predictions of all frames to obtain a video-level prediction. The top labels
(with class probability larger than a threshold) are used as weak “labels” for the
unlabeled video. The extracted basis vectors and the visual predictions are then
fed into our MIML learning framework to discover associations, as defined next.

3.3            Deep Multi-Instance Multi-Label Network

We cast the audio basis-object disentangling task as a multi-instance multi-label
(MIML) learning problem. In single-label MIL [17], one has bags of instances,
and a bag label indicates only that some number of the instances within it have
that label. In MIML, the bag can have multiple labels, and there is ambiguity
about which labels go with which instances in the bag.
    We design a deep MIML network for our task. A bag of basis vectors {B}
is the input to the network, and within each bag there are M basis vectors Bi
with i ∈ [1, M ] extracted from one video. The “labels” are only available at the
bag level, and come from noisy visual predictions of the ResNet-152 network
trained for ImageNet recognition. The labels for each instance (basis vector) are
unknown. We incorporate MIL into the deep network by modeling that there
must be at least one audio basis vector from a certain object that constitutes a
positive bag, so that the network can output a correct bag-level prediction that
agrees with the visual prediction.
    Fig. 3 shows the detailed network architecture. M basis vectors are fed
through a Siamese Network of M branches with shared weights. The Siamese
network is designed to reduce the dimension of the audio frequency bases and
learns the audio spectral patterns through a fully-connected layer (FC) followed
by batch norm (BN) [42] and a rectified linear unit (ReLU). The output of all
branches are stacked to form a 1024 × M dimension feature map. Each slice
of the feature map represents a basis vector with reduced dimension. Inspired
by [24], each label is decomposed to K sub-concepts to capture latent seman-
tic meanings. For example, for drum, the latent sub-concepts could be different
types of drums, such as bongo drum, tabla, and so on. The stacked output from
the Siamese network is forwarded through a 1 × 1 Convolution-BN-ReLU mod-
8       Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman

ule, and then reshaped into a feature cube of dimension K × L × M , where K
is the number of sub-concepts, L is the number of object categories, and M is
the number of audio basis vectors. The depth of the tensor equals the number of
input basis vectors, with each K × L slice corresponding to one particular basis.
The activation score of the (k, l, m)th node in the cube represents the matching
score of the kth sub-concept of the lth label for the mth basis vector.
    To get a bag-level prediction, we conduct two max-pooling operations. Max
pooling in deep MIL [24,80,81] is typically used to identify the positive instances
within an aggregated bag. Our first pooling is over the sub-concept dimension
(K) to generate an audio basis-object relation map. The second max-pooling
operates over the basis dimension (M ) to produce a video-level prediction. We
use the following multi-label hinge loss to train the network:

                                L      |V|
                          1     X      X
                L(A, V) =                     max[0, 1 − (AVj − Ai )],          (3)
                          L
                              i=1,i6=Vj j=1

where A ∈ RL is the output of the MIML network, and represents the object
predictions based on audio bases; V is the set of visual objects, namely the indices
of the |V| objects predicted by the ImageNet-trained model. The loss function
encourages the prediction scores of the correct classes to be larger than incorrect
ones by a margin of 1. We find these pooling steps in our MIML formulation
are valuable to learn accurately from the ambiguously “labeled” bags (i.e., the
videos and their object predictions); see Supp.
3.4   Disentangling Per-Object Bases
The MIML network above learns from audio-visual associations, but does not
itself disentangle them. The sounds in the audio track and objects present in the
visual frames of unlabeled video are diverse and noisy (see Sec. 4.1 for details
about the data we use). The audio basis vectors extracted from each video could
be a component shared by multiple objects, a feature composed of them, or even
completely unrelated to the predicted visual objects. The visual predictions from
ResNet-152 network give approximate predictions about the objects that could
be present, but are certainly not always reliable (see Fig. 5 for examples).
    Therefore, to collect high quality representative bases for each object cate-
gory, we use our trained deep MIML network as a tool. The audio basis-object
relation map after the first pooling layer of the MIML network produces match-
ing scores across all basis vectors for all object labels. We perform a dimension-
wise softmax over the basis dimension (M ) to normalize object matching scores
to probabilities along each basis dimension. By examining the normalized map,
we can discover links from bases to objects. We only collect the key bases that
trigger the prediction of the correct objects (namely, the visually detected ob-
jects). Further, we only collect bases from an unlabeled video if multiple basis
vectors strongly activate the correct object(s). See Supp. for details, and see
Fig. 5 for examples of typical basis-object relation maps. In short, at the end of
this phase, we have a set of audio bases for each visual object, discovered purely
from unlabeled video and mixed single-channel audio.
                Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video                                                                9


                                                         STFT




                                                                                                Supervised Source Separation
                                                                         Audio Spectrogram
                                    Audio                                                                                      Violin Sound

                                                               ect ed
                                                     lin   Det
                                                  Vio
  Novel Test Video                                                      Retrieve Violin Bases
                                                  Pian                                                                         Piano Sound
                                                        oD
                                                            etec
                                                                 ted
                                    Visual                              Retrieve Piano Bases


Fig. 4. Testing pipeline. Given a novel test video, we detect the objects present in the
visual frames, and retrieve their learnt audio bases. The bases are collected to form
a fixed basis dictionary W with which to guide NMF factorization of the test video’s
audio channel. The basis vectors and the learned activation scores from NMF are finally
used to separate the sound for each detected object, respectively.


3.5      Object Sound Separation for a Novel Video

Finally, we present our procedure to separate audio sources in new videos. As
shown in Fig. 4, given a novel test video q, we obtain its audio magnitude
spectrogram V(q) through STFT and detect objects using the same ImageNet-
trained ResNet-152 network as before. Then, we retrieve the learnt audio basis
vectors for each detected object, and use them to “guide” NMF-based audio
source separation. Specifically,

                      (q)
         V(q) ≈ Ṽ          = W(q) H(q)
                              h                           ih                            iT                                              (4)
                            = W(q)
                                1   · · · W
                                           (q)
                                           j   · · · W
                                                      (q)
                                                      J     H
                                                             (q)
                                                             1   · · · H
                                                                        (q)
                                                                        j   · · · H
                                                                                    (q)
                                                                                    J
                                                                                           ,

where J is the number of detected objects (J potential sound sources), and
   (q)
Wj contains the retrieved bases corresponding to object j in input video q. In
other words, we concatenate the basis vectors learnt for each detected object to
construct the basis dictionary W(q) . Next, in the NMF algorithm, we hold W(q)
fixed, and only estimate activations H(q) with multiplicative update rules. Then
                                                                            (q)
we obtain the spectrogram corresponding to each detected object by Vj =
   (q)    (q)
Wj Hj . We reconstruct the individual (compressed) audio source signals by
soft masking the mixture spectrogram:
                                                           (q)
                                                    Vj
                                             Vj = PJ    (q)
                                                                        V,                                                              (5)
                                                   i=1 Vi

where V contains both magnitude and phase. Finally, we perform ISTFT on Vj
to reconstruct the audio signals for each detected object. If a detected object
does not make sound, then its estimated activation scores will be low. This phase
can be seen as a self-supervised form of NMF, where the detected visual objects
reveal which bases (previously discovered from unlabeled videos) are relevant to
guide audio separation.
10        Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman

4      Experiments
We now validate our approach and compare to existing methods.
4.1     Datasets
We consider two public video datasets: AudioSet [29] and the benchmark videos
from [43, 53, 62], which we refer to as AV-Bench.
AudioSet-Unlabeled: We use AudioSet [29] as the source of unlabeled training
videos2 . The dataset consists of short 10 second video clips that often concentrate
on one event. However, our method makes no particular assumptions about
using short or trimmed videos, as it learns bases in the frequency domain and
pools both visual predictions and audio bases from all frames. The videos are
challenging: many are of poor quality and unrelated to object sounds, such as
silence, sine wave, echo, infrasound, etc. As is typical for related experimentation
in the literature [4,85], we filter the dataset to those likely to display audio-visual
events. In particular, we extract musical instruments, animals, and vehicles,
which span a broad set of unique sound-making objects. See Supp. for a complete
list of the object categories. Using the dataset’s provided split, we randomly
reserve some videos from the “unbalanced” split as validation data, and the rest
as the training data. We use videos from the “balanced” split as test data. The
final AudioSet-Unlabeled data contains 104k, 2.9k, 1k / 22k, 1.2k, 0.5k / 58k,
2.4k, 0.6k video clips in the train, val, test splits, for the instruments, animals,
and vehicles, respectively.
AudioSet-SingleSource: To facilitate quantitative evaluation (cf. Sec. 4.4), we
construct a dataset of AudioSet videos containing only a single sounding object.
We manually examine videos in the val/test set, and obtain 23 such videos.
There are 15 musical instruments (accordion, acoustic guitar, banjo, cello, drum,
electric guitar, flute, french horn, harmonica, harp, marimba, piano, saxophone,
trombone, violin), 4 animals (cat, dog, chicken, frog), and 4 vehicles (car, train,
plane, motorbike). Note that our method never uses these samples for training.
AV-Bench: This dataset contains the benchmark videos (Violin Yanni, Wooden
Horse, and Guitar Solo) used in previous studies [43, 53, 62].
4.2     Implementation Details
We extract a 10 second audio clip and 10 frames (every 1s) from each video. Fol-
lowing common settings [3], the audio clip is resampled at 48 kHz, and converted
into a magnitude spectrogram of size 2401×202 through STFT of window length
0.1s and half window overlap. We use the NMF implementation of [26] with KL
divergence and the multiplicative update solver. We extract M = 25 basis vec-
tors from each audio. All video frames are resized to 256 × 256, and 224 × 224
center crops are used to make visual predictions. We use all relevant ImageNet
categories and group them into 23 classes by merging the posteriors of similar
categories to roughly align with the AudioSet categories; see Supp. A softmax
2
     AudioSet offers noisy video-level audio class annotations. However, we do not use
     any of its label information.
          Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video         11

is finally performed on the video-level object prediction scores, and classes with
probability greater than 0.3 are kept as weak labels for MIML training. The deep
MIML network is implemented in PyTorch with F = 2, 401, K = 4, L = 25, and
M = 25. We report all results with these settings and did not try other values.
The network is trained using Adam [48] with weight decay 10−5 and batch size
256. The starting learning rate is set to 0.001, and decreased by 6% every 5
epochs and trained for 300 epochs.
4.3 Baselines
We compare to several existing methods [47, 55, 62, 72] and multiple baselines:
MFCC Unsupervised Separation [72]: This is an off-the-shelf unsupervised
audio source separation method. The separated channels are first converted into
Mel frequency cepstrum coefficients (MFCC), and then K-means clustering is
used to group separated channels. This is an established pipeline in the litera-
ture [31, 41, 44, 75], making it a good representative for comparison. We use the
publicly available code3 .
AV-Loc [62], JIVE [55], Sparse CCA [47]: We refer to results reported
in [62] for the AV-Bench dataset to compare to these methods.
AudioSet Supervised Upper-Bound: This baseline uses AudioSet ground-
truth labels to train our deep MIML network. AudioSet labels are organized in
an ontology and each video is labeled by many categories. We use the 23 labels
aligned with our subset (15 instruments, 4 animals, and 4 vehicles). This baseline
serves as an upper-bound.
K-means Clustering Unsupervised Separation: We use the same number
of basis vectors as our method to initialize the W matrix, and perform unsuper-
vised NMF. K-means clustering is then used to group separated channels, with
K equal to the number of ground-truth sources. The sound sources are separated
by aggregating the channel spectrograms belonging to each cluster.
Visual Exemplar for Supervised Separation: We recognize objects in the
frames, and retrieve bases from an exemplar video for each detected object class
to supervise its NMF audio source separation. An exemplar video is the one that
has the largest confidence score for a class among all unlabeled training videos.
Unmatched Bases for Supervised Separation: This baseline is the same
as our method except that it retrieves bases of the wrong class (at random from
classes absent in the visual prediction) to guide NMF audio source separation.
Gaussian Bases for Supervised Separation: We initialize the weight ma-
trix W randomly using a Gaussian distribution, and then perform supervised
audio source separation (with W fixed) as in Sec. 3.5.

4.4    Quantitative Results
Visually-aided audio source separation For “in the wild” unlabeled videos, the
ground-truth of separated audio sources never exists. Therefore, to allow quanti-
tative evaluation, we create a test set consisting of combined single-source videos,
3
    https://github.com/interactiveaudiolab/nussl
12      Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman

                          Instrument Pair Animal Pair Vehicle Pair Cross-Domain Pair
    Upper-Bound                 2.05            0.35         0.60            2.79
 K-means Clustering             -2.85          -3.76        -2.71           -3.32
MFCC Unsupervised [72]          0.47           -0.21        -0.05            1.49
  Visual Exemplar               -2.41          -4.75        -2.21           -2.28
  Unmatched Bases               -2.12          -2.46        -1.99           -1.93
   Gaussian Bases               -8.74          -9.12        -7.39           -8.21
       Ours                     1.83           0.23         0.49            2.53

Table 1. We pairwise mix the sounds of two single source AudioSet videos and perform
audio source separation. Mean Signal to Distortion Ratio (SDR in dB, higher is better)
is reported to represent the overall separation performance.

following [8]. In particular, we take pairwise video combinations from AudioSet-
SingleSource (cf. Sec. 4.1) and 1) compound their audio tracks by normalizing
and mixing them and 2) compound their visual channels by max-pooling their
respective object predictions. Each compound video is a test video; its reserved
source audio tracks are the ground truth for evaluation of separation results.
    To evaluate source separation quality, we use the widely used BSS-EVAL
toolbox [74] and report the Signal to Distortion Ratio (SDR). We perform four
sets of experiments: pairwise compound two videos of musical instruments (In-
strument Pair), two of animals (Animal Pair), two of vehicles (Vehicle Pair), and
two cross-domain videos (Cross-Domain Pair). For unsupervised clustering sep-
aration baselines, we evaluate both possible matchings and take the best results
(to the baselines’ advantage).
    Table 1 shows the results. Our method significantly outperforms the Vi-
sual Exemplar, Unmatched, and Gaussian baselines, demonstrating the power
of our learned bases. Compared with the unsupervised clustering baselines, in-
cluding [72], our method achieves large gains. It also has the capability to match
the separated source to acoustic objects in the video, whereas the baselines can
only return ungrounded audio signals. We stress that both our method as well as
the baselines use no audio-based supervision. In contrast, other state-of-the-art
audio source separation methods supervise the separation process with labeled
training data containing clean ground-truth sources and/or tailor separation to
music/speech (e.g., [36, 39, 54]). Such methods are not applicable here.
    Our MIML solution is fairly tolerant to imperfect visual detection. Using
weak labels from the ImageNet pre-trained ResNet-152 network performs sim-
ilarly to using the AudioSet ground-truth labels with about 30% of the labels
corrupted. Using the true labels (Upper-Bound in Table 1) reveals the extent to
which better visual models would improve results.
Visually-aided audio denoising To facilitate comparison to prior audio-visual
methods (none of which report results on AudioSet), next we perform the same
experiment as in [62] on visually-assisted audio denoising on AV-Bench. Fol-
lowing the same setup as [62], the audio signals in all videos are corrupted with
white noise with the signal to noise ratio set to 0 dB. To perform audio denoising,
our method retrieves bases of detected object(s) and appends the same number
of randomly initialized bases as the weight matrix W to supervise NMF. The
          Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video            13

                                   Wooden Horse Violin Yanni Guitar Solo Average
 Sparse CCA (Kidron et al. [47])       4.36          5.30         5.71       5.12
     JIVE (Lock et al. [55])           4.54          4.43         2.64       3.87
  Audio-Visual (Pu et al. [62])        8.82          5.90         14.1       9.61
             Ours                      12.3          7.88         11.4       10.5
Table 2. Visually-assisted audio denoising results on three benchmark videos, in terms
of NSDR (in dB, higher is better).

randomly initialized bases are intended to capture the noise signal. As in [62],
we report Normalized SDR (NSDR), which measures the improvement of the
SDR between the mixed noisy signal and the denoised sound.
    Table 2 shows the results. Note that the method of [62] is tailored to separate
noise from the foreground sound by exploiting the low-rank nature of background
sounds. Still, our method outperforms [62] on 2 out of the 3 videos, and per-
forms much better than the other two prior audio-visual methods [47, 55]. Pu
et al. [62] also exploit motion in manually segmented regions. On Guitar Solo,
the hand’s motion may strongly correlate with the sound, leading to their better
performance.
4.5 Qualitative Results
Next we provide qualitative results to illustrate the effectiveness of MIML train-
ing and the success of audio source separation. Here we run our method on the
real multi-source videos from AudioSet. They lack ground truth, but results can
be manually inspected for quality (see our video4 ).
    Fig. 5 shows example unlabeled videos and their discovered audio basis asso-
ciations. For each example, we show sample video frames, ImageNet CNN visual
object predictions, as well as the corresponding audio basis-object relation map
predicted by our MIML network. We also report the AudioSet audio ground
truth labels, but note that they are never seen by our method. The first example
(Fig. 5-a) has both piano and violin in the visual frames, which are correctly de-
tected by the CNN. The audio also contains the sounds of both instruments, and
our method appropriately activates bases for both the violin and piano. Fig. 5-b
shows a man playing the violin in the visual frames, but both piano and violin are
strongly activated. Listening to the audio, we can hear that an out-of-view player
is indeed playing the piano. This example accentuates the advantage of learning
object sounds from thousands of unlabeled videos; our method has learned the
correct audio bases for piano, and “hears” it even though it is off-camera in
this test video. Fig. 5-c/d show two examples with inaccurate visual predictions,
and our model correctly activates the label of the object in the audio. Fig. 5-e/f
show two more examples of an animal and a vehicle, and the results are similar.
These examples suggest that our MIML network has successfully learned the
prototypical spectral patterns of different sounds, and is capable of associating
audio bases with object categories.
    Please see our video4 for more results, where we use our system to detect
and separate object sounds for novel “in the wild” videos.
4
    http://vision.cs.utexas.edu/projects/separating_object_sounds/
14               Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman




                                                      (b) visual prediction: violin
    (a) visual prediction: violin & piano
                                                    audio ground-truth: violin & piano
     audio ground-truth: violin & piano




          (c) visual prediction:                     (d) visual prediction: train
  acoustic guitar & electric guitar                audio ground-truth: acoustic guitar
audio ground-truth: drum & electric guitar




       (e) visual prediction: dog                     (f) visual prediction: train
          audio ground-truth: dog                        audio ground-truth: train



Fig. 5. In each example, we show the video frames, visual predictions, and the cor-
responding basis-label relation maps predicted by our MIML network. Please see our
video4 for more examples and the corresponding audio tracks.


    Overall, the results are promising and constitute a noticeable step towards
visually guided audio source separation for more realistic videos. Of course, our
system is far from perfect. The most common failure modes by our method are
when the audio characteristics of detected objects are too similar or objects are
incorrectly detected (see Supp.). Though ImageNet-trained CNNs can recognize
a wide array of objects, we are nonetheless constrained by its breadth. Further-
more, not all objects make sounds and not all sounds are within the camera’s
view. Our results above suggest that learning can be robust to such factors, yet
it will be important future work to explicitly model them.

5         Conclusion
We presented a framework to learn object sounds from thousands of unlabeled
videos. Our deep multi-instance multi-label network automatically links audio
bases to object categories. Using the disentangled bases to supervise non-negative
matrix factorization, our approach successfully separates object-level sounds.
We demonstrate its effectiveness on diverse data and object categories. Audio
source separation will continue to benefit many appealing applications, e.g., au-
dio events indexing/remixing, audio denoising for closed captioning, or instru-
ment equalization. In future work, we aim to explore ways to leverage scenes and
ambient sounds, as well as integrate localized object detections and motion.
Acknowledgements: This research was supported in part by an IBM Faculty
Award, IBM Open Collaboration Research Award, and DARPA Lifelong Learn-
ing Machines. We thank members of the UT Austin vision group and Wenguang
Mao, Yuzhong Wu, Dongguang You, Xingyi Zhou and Xinying Hao for helpful
input. We also gratefully acknowledge a GPU donation from Facebook.
          Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video             15

References

 1. Afouras, T., Chung, J.S., Zisserman, A.: The conversation: Deep audio-visual
    speech enhancement. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.04121 (2018) 5
 2. Ali, S., Shah, M.: Human action recognition in videos using kinematic features and
    multiple instance learning. PAMI (2010) 5
 3. Arandjelovic, R., Zisserman, A.: Look, listen and learn. In: ICCV (2017) 3, 10
 4. Arandjelović, R., Zisserman, A.: Objects that sound. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:1712.06651 (2017) 3, 10
 5. Aytar, Y., Vondrick, C., Torralba, A.: Soundnet: Learning sound representations
    from unlabeled video. In: NIPS (2016) 3
 6. Aytar, Y., Vondrick, C., Torralba, A.: See, hear, and read: Deep aligned represen-
    tations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.00932 (2017) 4
 7. Barnard, K., Duygulu, P., de Freitas, N., Blei, D., Jordan, M.: Matching words
    and pictures. JMLR (2003) 5
 8. Barzelay, Z., Schechner, Y.Y.: Harmony in motion. In: CVPR (2007) 3, 4, 12
 9. Berg, T., Berg, A., Edwards, J., Maire, M., White, R., Teh, Y., Learned-Miller,
    E., Forsyth, D.: Names and faces in the news. In: CVPR (2004) 5
10. Bilen, H., Vedaldi, A.: Weakly supervised deep detection networks. In: CVPR
    (2016) 5
11. Bryan, N.: Interactive Sound Source Separation. Ph.D. thesis, Stanford University
    (2014) 4
12. Casanovas, A.L., Monaci, G., Vandergheynst, P., Gribonval, R.: Blind audiovisual
    source separation based on sparse redundant representations. IEEE Transactions
    on Multimedia (2010) 3, 4
13. Chen, L., Srivastava, S., Duan, Z., Xu, C.: Deep cross-modal audio-visual genera-
    tion. In: on Thematic Workshops of ACM Multimedia (2017) 5
14. Cinbis, R., Verbeek, J., Schmid, C.: Weakly supervised object localization with
    multi-fold multiple instance learning. PAMI (2017) 5
15. Darrell, T., Fisher, J., Viola, P., Freeman, W.: Audio-visual segmentation and the
    cocktail party effect. In: ICMI (2000) 3, 4
16. Deselaers, T., Alexe, B., Ferrari, V.: Weakly supervised localization and learning
    with generic knowledge. IJCV (2012) 5
17. Dietterich, T.G., Lathrop, R.H., Lozano-Pérez, T.: Solving the multiple instance
    problem with axis-parallel rectangles. Artificial intelligence (1997) 7
18. Donahue, J., Hendricks, L., Guadarrama, S., Rohrbach, M., Venugopalan, S.,
    Saenko, K., Darrell, T.: Long-term recurrent convolutional networks for visual
    recognition and description. In: CVPR (2015) 5
19. Duong, N.Q., Ozerov, A., Chevallier, L., Sirot, J.: An interactive audio source sep-
    aration framework based on non-negative matrix factorization. In: ICASSP (2014)
    4
20. Duong, N.Q., Vincent, E., Gribonval, R.: Under-determined reverberant audio
    source separation using a full-rank spatial covariance model. IEEE Transactions
    on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing (2010) 4
21. Duygulu, P., Barnard, K., de Freitas, N., Forsyth, D.: Object recognition as ma-
    chine translation: learning a lexicon for a fixed image vocabulary. In: eccv (2002)
    5
22. Ellis, D.P.W.: Prediction-driven computational auditory scene analysis. Ph.D. the-
    sis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1996) 4
16      Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman

23. Ephrat, A., Mosseri, I., Lang, O., Dekel, T., Wilson, K., Hassidim, A.,
    Freeman, W.T., Rubinstein, M.: Looking to listen at the cocktail party: A
    speaker-independent audio-visual model for speech separation. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:1804.03619 (2018) 5
24. Feng, J., Zhou, Z.H.: Deep miml network. In: AAAI (2017) 7, 8
25. Févotte, C., Bertin, N., Durrieu, J.L.: Nonnegative matrix factorization with the
    itakura-saito divergence: With application to music analysis. Neural computation
    (2009) 2, 4, 6
26. Févotte, C., Idier, J.: Algorithms for nonnegative matrix factorization with the
    β-divergence. Neural computation (2011) 4, 6, 10
27. Fisher III, J.W., Darrell, T., Freeman, W.T., Viola, P.A.: Learning joint statistical
    models for audio-visual fusion and segregation. In: NIPS (2001) 3, 4
28. Gabbay, A., Shamir, A., Peleg, S.: Visual speech enhancement using noise-invariant
    training. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.08789 (2017) 5
29. Gemmeke, J.F., Ellis, D.P., Freedman, D., Jansen, A., Lawrence, W., Moore, R.C.,
    Plakal, M., Ritter, M.: Audio set: An ontology and human-labeled dataset for audio
    events. In: ICASSP (2017) 10
30. Griffin, D., Lim, J.: Signal estimation from modified short-time fourier transform.
    IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (1984) 5, 6
31. Guo, X., Uhlich, S., Mitsufuji, Y.: Nmf-based blind source separation using a linear
    predictive coding error clustering criterion. In: ICASSP (2015) 4, 11
32. Harwath, D., Glass, J.: Learning word-like units from joint audio-visual analysis.
    In: ACL (2017) 5
33. Harwath, D., Recasens, A., Surı́s, D., Chuang, G., Torralba, A., Glass, J.: Jointly
    discovering visual objects and spoken words from raw sensory input. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:1804.01452 (2018) 5
34. He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., Sun, J.: Deep residual learning for image recognition.
    In: CVPR (2016) 7
35. Hennequin, R., David, B., Badeau, R.: Score informed audio source separation
    using a parametric model of non-negative spectrogram. In: ICASSP (2011) 4
36. Hershey, J.R., Chen, Z., Le Roux, J., Watanabe, S.: Deep clustering: Discriminative
    embeddings for segmentation and separation. In: ICASSP (2016) 4, 12
37. Hershey, J.R., Movellan, J.R.: Audio vision: Using audio-visual synchrony to locate
    sounds. In: NIPS (2000) 3
38. Hofmann, T.: Probabilistic latent semantic indexing. In: International ACM SIGIR
    Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (1999) 4
39. Huang, P.S., Kim, M., Hasegawa-Johnson, M., Smaragdis, P.: Deep learning for
    monaural speech separation. In: ICASSP (2014) 4, 12
40. Hyvärinen, A., Oja, E.: Independent component analysis: algorithms and applica-
    tions. Neural networks (2000) 2, 4
41. Innami, S., Kasai, H.: Nmf-based environmental sound source separation using
    time-variant gain features. Computers & Mathematics with Applications (2012) 4,
    11
42. Ioffe, S., Szegedy, C.: Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training by
    reducing internal covariate shift. In: ICML (2015) 7
43. Izadinia, H., Saleemi, I., Shah, M.: Multimodal analysis for identification and seg-
    mentation of moving-sounding objects. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia (2013)
    10
44. Jaiswal, R., FitzGerald, D., Barry, D., Coyle, E., Rickard, S.: Clustering nmf basis
    functions using shifted nmf for monaural sound source separation. In: ICASSP
    (2011) 4, 11
          Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video               17

45. Jhuo, I.H., Ye, G., Gao, S., Liu, D., Jiang, Y.G., Lee, D., Chang, S.F.: Discov-
    ering joint audio–visual codewords for video event detection. Machine vision and
    applications (2014) 2
46. Karpathy, A., Fei-Fei, L.: Deep visual-semantic alignments for generating image
    descriptions. In: CVPR (2015) 5
47. Kidron, E., Schechner, Y.Y., Elad, M.: Pixels that sound. In: CVPR (2005) 3, 11,
    13
48. Kingma, D., Ba, J.: Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. In: ICLR (2015)
    11
49. Korbar, B., Tran, D., Torresani, L.: Co-training of audio and video representations
    from self-supervised temporal synchronization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.00230
    (2018) 3
50. Le Magoarou, L., Ozerov, A., Duong, N.Q.: Text-informed audio source separa-
    tion. example-based approach using non-negative matrix partial co-factorization.
    Journal of Signal Processing Systems (2015) 4
51. Lee, D.D., Seung, H.S.: Algorithms for non-negative matrix factorization. In: Ad-
    vances in neural information processing systems (2001) 4, 6
52. Li, B., Dinesh, K., Duan, Z., Sharma, G.: See and listen: Score-informed association
    of sound tracks to players in chamber music performance videos. In: ICASSP (2017)
    3, 4
53. Li, K., Ye, J., Hua, K.A.: What’s making that sound? In: ACMMM (2014) 10
54. Liutkus, A., Fitzgerald, D., Rafii, Z., Pardo, B., Daudet, L.: Kernel additive models
    for source separation. IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing (2014) 12
55. Lock, E.F., Hoadley, K.A., Marron, J.S., Nobel, A.B.: Joint and individual variation
    explained (jive) for integrated analysis of multiple data types. The annals of applied
    statistics (2013) 11, 13
56. Nakadai, K., Hidai, K.i., Okuno, H.G., Kitano, H.: Real-time speaker localization
    and speech separation by audio-visual integration. In: IEEE International Confer-
    ence on Robotics and Automation (2002) 4
57. Naphade, M., Smith, J.R., Tesic, J., Chang, S.F., Hsu, W., Kennedy, L., Haupt-
    mann, A., Curtis, J.: Large-scale concept ontology for multimedia. IEEE multime-
    dia (2006) 2
58. Owens, A., Efros, A.A.: Audio-visual scene analysis with self-supervised multisen-
    sory features. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.03641 (2018) 5
59. Owens, A., Isola, P., McDermott, J., Torralba, A., Adelson, E.H., Freeman, W.T.:
    Visually indicated sounds. In: CVPR (2016) 3, 5
60. Owens, A., Wu, J., McDermott, J.H., Freeman, W.T., Torralba, A.: Ambient sound
    provides supervision for visual learning. In: ECCV (2016) 3
61. Parekh, S., Essid, S., Ozerov, A., Duong, N.Q., Pérez, P., Richard, G.: Motion
    informed audio source separation. In: ICASSP (2017) 3, 4
62. Pu, J., Panagakis, Y., Petridis, S., Pantic, M.: Audio-visual object localization and
    separation using low-rank and sparsity. In: ICASSP (2017) 3, 4, 10, 11, 12, 13
63. Rahne, T., Böckmann, M., von Specht, H., Sussman, E.S.: Visual cues can modu-
    late integration and segregation of objects in auditory scene analysis. Brain research
    (2007) 2
64. Rivet, B., Girin, L., Jutten, C.: Mixing audiovisual speech processing and blind
    source separation for the extraction of speech signals from convolutive mixtures.
    IEEE transactions on audio, speech, and language processing (2007) 3, 4
65. Sedighin, F., Babaie-Zadeh, M., Rivet, B., Jutten, C.: Two multimodal approaches
    for single microphone source separation. In: 24th European Signal Processing Con-
    ference (2016) 4
18      Ruohan Gao, Rogerio Feris, Kristen Grauman

66. Simpson, A.J., Roma, G., Plumbley, M.D.: Deep karaoke: Extracting vocals from
    musical mixtures using a convolutional deep neural network. In: International Con-
    ference on Latent Variable Analysis and Signal Separation. pp. 429–436. Springer
    (2015) 4
67. Smaragdis, P., Casey, M.: Audio/visual independent components. In: International
    Conference on Independent Component Analysis and Signal Separation (2003) 4
68. Smaragdis, P., Raj, B., Shashanka, M.: A probabilistic latent variable model for
    acoustic modeling. In: NIPS (2006) 4
69. Smaragdis, P., Raj, B., Shashanka, M.: Supervised and semi-supervised separation
    of sounds from single-channel mixtures. In: International Conference on Indepen-
    dent Component Analysis and Signal Separation (2007) 4
70. Smeaton, A.F., Over, P., Kraaij, W.: Evaluation campaigns and trecvid. In: Pro-
    ceedings of the 8th ACM international workshop on Multimedia information re-
    trieval (2006) 2
71. Snoek, C.G., Worring, M.: Multimodal video indexing: A review of the state-of-
    the-art. Multimedia tools and applications (2005) 2
72. SPIERTZ, M.: Source-filter based clustering for monaural blind source separation.
    In: 12th International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (2009) 4, 11, 12
73. Vijayanarasimhan, S., Grauman, K.: Keywords to visual categories: Multiple-
    instance learning for weakly supervised object categorization. In: CVPR (2008)
    5
74. Vincent, E., Gribonval, R., Févotte, C.: Performance measurement in blind audio
    source separation. IEEE transactions on audio, speech, and language processing
    (2006) 12
75. Virtanen, T.: Sound source separation using sparse coding with temporal continuity
    objective. In: International Computer Music Conference (2003) 4, 11
76. Virtanen, T.: Monaural sound source separation by nonnegative matrix factoriza-
    tion with temporal continuity and sparseness criteria. IEEE transactions on audio,
    speech, and language processing (2007) 2, 4, 6
77. WANG, B.: Investigating single-channel audio source separation methods based on
    non-negative matrix factorization. In: ICA Research Network International Work-
    shop (2006) 4
78. Wang, L., Xiong, Y., Lin, D., Gool, L.V.: Untrimmednets for weakly supervised
    action recognition and detection. In: CVPR (2017) 5
79. Wang, Z., Kuan, K., Ravaut, M., Manek, G., Song, S., Yuan, F., Seokhwan, K.,
    Chen, N., Enriquez, L.F.D., Tuan, L.A., et al.: Truly multi-modal youtube-8m
    video classification with video, audio, and text. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.05461
    (2017) 2
80. Wu, J., Yu, Y., Huang, C., Yu, K.: Deep multiple instance learning for image
    classification and auto-annotation. In: CVPR (2015) 8
81. Yang, H., Zhou, J.T., Cai, J., Ong, Y.S.: Miml-fcn+: Multi-instance multi-label
    learning via fully convolutional networks with privileged information. In: CVPR
    (2017) 8
82. Yilmaz, O., Rickard, S.: Blind separation of speech mixtures via time-frequency
    masking. IEEE Transactions on signal processing (2004) 4
83. Zhang, Z., Wu, J., Li, Q., Huang, Z., Traer, J., McDermott, J.H., Tenenbaum, J.B.,
    Freeman, W.T.: Generative modeling of audible shapes for object perception. In:
    ICCV (2017) 5
84. Zhao, H., Gan, C., Rouditchenko, A., Vondrick, C., McDermott, J., Torralba, A.:
    The sound of pixels. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.03160 (2018) 5
          Learning to Separate Object Sounds by Watching Unlabeled Video           19

85. Zhou, Y., Wang, Z., Fang, C., Bui, T., Berg, T.L.: Visual to sound: Generating
    natural sound for videos in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.01393 (2017) 5, 10
86. Zibulevsky, M., Pearlmutter, B.A.: Blind source separation by sparse decomposi-
    tion in a signal dictionary. Neural computation (2001) 2, 4
