                                                               SoundNet: Learning Sound
                                                           Representations from Unlabeled Video


                                                         Yusuf Aytar∗                   Carl Vondrick∗                Antonio Torralba
                                                            MIT                              MIT                            MIT
                                                    yusuf@csail.mit.edu               vondrick@mit.edu               torralba@mit.edu




arXiv:1610.09001v1 [cs.CV] 27 Oct 2016
                                                                                         Abstract

                                                      We learn rich natural sound representations by capitalizing on large amounts of
                                                      unlabeled sound data collected in the wild. We leverage the natural synchronization
                                                      between vision and sound to learn an acoustic representation using two-million
                                                      unlabeled videos. Unlabeled video has the advantage that it can be economically
                                                      acquired at massive scales, yet contains useful signals about natural sound. We
                                                      propose a student-teacher training procedure which transfers discriminative visual
                                                      knowledge from well established visual recognition models into the sound modality
                                                      using unlabeled video as a bridge. Our sound representation yields significant
                                                      performance improvements over the state-of-the-art results on standard benchmarks
                                                      for acoustic scene/object classification. Visualizations suggest some high-level
                                                      semantics automatically emerge in the sound network, even though it is trained
                                                      without ground truth labels.


                                         1       Introduction
                                         The fields of object recognition, speech recognition, machine translation have been revolutionized by
                                         the emergence of massive labeled datasets [31, 42, 10] and learned deep representations [17, 33, 10,
                                         35]. However, there has not yet been the same corresponding progress in natural sound understanding
                                         tasks. We attribute this partly to the lack of large labeled datasets of sound, which are often both
                                         expensive and ambiguous to collect. We believe that large-scale sound data can also significantly
                                         advance natural sound understanding. In this paper, we leverage over one year of sounds collected
                                         in-the-wild to learn semantically rich sound representations.
                                         We propose to scale up by capitalizing on the natural synchronization between vision and sound
                                         to learn an acoustic representation from unlabeled video. Unlabeled video has the advantage that
                                         it can be economically acquired at massive scales, yet contains useful signals about sound. Recent
                                         progress in computer vision has enabled machines to recognize scenes and objects in images and
                                         videos with good accuracy. We show how to transfer this discriminative visual knowledge into sound
                                         using unlabeled video as a bridge.
                                         We present a deep convolutional network that learns directly on raw audio waveforms, which is
                                         trained by transferring knowledge from vision into sound. Although the network is trained with
                                         visual supervision, the network has no dependence on vision during inference. In our experiments,
                                         we show that the representation learned by our network obtains state-of-the-art accuracy on three
                                         standard acoustic scene classification datasets. Since we can leverage large amounts of unlabeled
                                         sound data, it is feasible to train deeper networks without significant overfitting, and our experiments
                                         suggest deeper models perform better. Visualizations of the representation suggest that the network is
                                         also learning high-level detectors, such as recognizing bird chirps or crowds cheering, even though it
                                         is trained directly from audio without ground truth labels.
                                             ∗
                                                 contributed equally


                                         29th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2016), Barcelona, Spain.
                                                       Visual	  Recognition	  Networks
  Unlabeled	  
    Video                                                                               Object	  Distribution
                                                                                                                          KL
                                       RGB	  Frames               ImageNet CNN
                                                                                        Scene	  Distribution
                                                                                                                         KL
                                                                    Places	  CNN




       Raw	  
  Waveform                                                                              conv6
                                                                                                    conv7
                                                                                pool5                            conv8
                                                                 conv5
                                                       conv4
                                               conv3

                               conv2
                                       pool2
                                                               SoundNet Architecture
                 conv1 pool1
             Input
                                                                Deep	  1D	  Convolutional	  Network
Figure 1: SoundNet: We propose a deep convolutional architecture for natural sound recognition.
We train the network by transferring discriminative knowledge from visual recognition networks into
sound networks. Our approach capitalizes on the synchronization of vision and sound in video.

The primary contribution of this paper is the development of a large-scale and semantically rich
representation for natural sound. We believe large-scale models of natural sounds can have a large
impact in many real-world applications, such as robotics and cross-modal understanding. The
remainder of this paper describes our method and experiments in detail. We first review related work.
In section 2, we describe our unlabeled video dataset and in section 3 we present our network and
training procedure. Finally in section 4 we conclude with experiments on standard benchmarks and
show several visualizations of the learned representation. Code, data, and models will be released.

1.1 Related Work
Sound Recognition: Although large-scale audio understanding has been extensively studied in the
context of music [5, 37] and speech recognition [10], we focus on understanding natural, in-the-wild
sounds. Acoustic scene classification, classifying sound excerpts into existing acoustic scene/object
categories, is predominantly based on applying a variety of general classifiers (SVMs, GMMs, etc.)
to the manually crafted sound features (MFCC, spectrograms, etc.) [4, 29, 21, 30, 34, 32]. Even
though there are unsupervised [20] and supervised [27, 23, 6, 12] deep learning methods applied to
sound classification, the models are limited by the amount of available labeled natural sound data.
We distinguish ourselves from the existing literature by training a deep fully convolutional network
on a large scale dataset (2M videos). This allows us to train much deeper networks. Another key
advantage of our approach is that we supervise our sound recognition network through semantically
rich visual discriminative models [33, 17] which proved their robustness on a variety of large scale
object/scene categorization challenges[31, 42]. [26] also investigates the relation between vision and
sound modalities, but focuses on producing sound from image sequences. Concurrent work [11] also
explores video as a form of weak labeling for audio event classification.
Transfer Learning: Transfer learning is widely studied within computer vision such as transferring
knowledge for object detection [1, 2] and segmentation [18], however transferring from vision to
other modalities are only possible recently with the emergence of high performance visual models
[33, 17]. Our method builds upon teacher-student models [3, 9] and dark knowledge transfer [13].
In [3, 13] the basic idea is to compress (i.e. transfer) discriminative knowledge from a well-trained
complex model to a simpler model without loosing considerable accuracy. In [3] and [13] both the
teacher and the student are in the same modality, whereas in our approach the teacher operates on
vision to train the student model in sound. [9] also transfer visual supervision into depth models.
Cross-Modal Learning and Unlabeled Video: Our approach is broadly inspired by efforts to
model cross-modal relations [24, 14, 7, 26] and works that leverage large amounts of unlabeled video
[25, 41, 8, 40, 39]. In this work, we leverage the natural synchronization between vision and sound
to learn a deep representation of natural sounds without ground truth sound labels.

                                                                         2
        Beach             Classroom           Construction             River                Club




        Forrest             Hockey              Playroom              Engine             Vegetation
Figure 2: Unlabeled Video Dataset: Sample frames from our 2+ million video dataset. For visual-
ization purposes, each frame is automatically categorized by object and scene vision networks.

2     Large Unlabeled Video Dataset
We seek to learn a representation for sound by leveraging massive amounts of unlabeled videos.
While there are a variety of sources available on the web (e.g., YouTube, Flickr), we chose to use
videos from Flickr because they are natural, not professionally edited, short clips that capture various
sounds in everyday, in-the-wild situations. We downloaded over two million videos from Flickr by
querying for popular tags [36] and dictionary words, which resulted in over one year of continuous
natural sound and video, which we use for training. The length of each video varies from a few
seconds to several minutes. We show a small sample of frames from the video dataset in Figure 2.
We wish to process sound waves in the raw. Hence, the only post-processing we did on the videos
was to convert sound to MP3s, reduce the sampling rate to 22 kHz, and convert to single channel
audio. Although this slightly degrades the quality of the sound, it allows us to more efficiently operate
on large datasets. We also scaled the waveform to be in the range [−256, 256]. We did not need to
subtract the mean because it was naturally near zero already.

3     Learning Sound Representations
3.1   Deep Convolutional Sound Network

Convolutional Network: We present a deep convolutional architecture for learning sound represen-
tations. We propose to use a series of one-dimensional convolutions followed by nonlinearities (i.e.
ReLU layer) in order to process sound. Convolutional networks are well-suited for audio signals for
a couple of reasons. Firstly, like images [19], we desire our network to be invariant to translations, a
property that reduces the number of parameters we need to learn and increases efficiency. Secondly,
convolutional networks allow us to stack layers, which enables us to detect higher-level concepts
through a series of lower-level detectors.
Variable Length Input/Output: Since sound can vary in temporal length, we desire our network to
handle variable-length inputs. To do this, we use a fully convolutional network. As convolutional
layers are invariant to location, we can convolve each layer depending on the length of the input.
Consequently, in our architecture, we only use convolutional and pooling layers. Since the represen-
tation adapts to the input length, we must design the output layers to work with variable length inputs
as well. While we could have used a global pooling strategy [37] to down-sample variable length
inputs to a fixed dimensional vector, such a strategy may unnecessarily discard information useful
for high-level representations. Since we ultimately aim to train this network with video, which is
also variable length, we instead use a convolutional output layer to produce an output over multiple
timesteps in video. This strategy is similar to a spatial loss in images [22], but instead temporally.
Network Depth: Since we will use a large amount of video to train, it is feasible to use deep archi-
tectures without significant over-fitting. We experiment with both five-layer and eight-layer networks.


                                                   3
 Layer         conv1  pool1 conv2 pool2 conv3 conv4 conv5 pool5 conv6 conv7 conv8
 Dim.         220,050 27,506 13,782 1,722 862  432   217    54    28    15    4
 # of Filters    16     16     32    32   64   128   256   256   512  1024 1401
 Filter Size     64      8     32     8   16    8     4      4     4     4    8
 Stride           2      1     2      1    2    2     2      1     2     2    2
 Padding         32      0     16     0    8    4     2      0     2     2    0
      Table 1: SoundNet (8 Layer): The configuration of the layers for the 8-layer SoundNet.
                     conv1  pool1 conv2 pool2 conv3 pool3 conv4 conv5
                    220,050 27,506 13,782 1,722 862  432   217    54
                       32     32     64     64  128  128   256  1401
                       64     8      32      8   16   8     8     16
                        2     8       2      8   2    8     2     12
                       32     0      16      0   8    0     4      4
            Table 2: SoundNet (5 Layer): The configuration for the 5-layer SoundNet.

We visualize the eight-layer network architecture in Figure 1, which conists of 8 convolutional layers
and 3 max-pooling layers. We show the layer configuration in Table 1 and Table 2.

3.2   Visual Transfer into Sound
The main idea in this paper is to leverage the natural synchronization between vision and sound in
unlabeled video in order to learn a representation for sound. We model the learning problem from a
student-teacher perspective. In our case, state-of-the-art networks for vision will teach our network
for sound to recognize scenes and objects.
Let xi ∈ RD be a waveform and yi ∈ R3×T ×W ×H be its corresponding video for 1 ≤ i ≤ N , where
W, H, T are width, height and number of sampled frames in the video, respectively. During learning,
we aim to use the posterior probabilities from a teacher vision network gk (yi ) in order to train our
student network fk (xi ) to recognize concepts given sound. As we wish to transfer knowledge from
both object and scene networks, k enumerates the concepts we are transferring. During learning, we
               PK PN                                                          P         Pj
optimize minθ     k=1     i=1 DKL (gk (yi )||fk (xi ; θ)) where DKL (P ||Q) =  j Pj log Qj is the KL-
divergence. While there are a variety of distance metrics we could have use, we chose KL-divergence
because the outputs from the vision network gk can be interpreted as a distribution of categories. As
KL-divergence is differentiable, we optimize it using back-propagation [19] and stochastic gradient
descent. We transfer from both scene and object visual networks (K = 2).

3.3   Sound Classification
Although we train SoundNet to classify visual categories, the categories we wish to recognize may not
appear in visual models (e.g., sneezing). Consequently, we use a different strategy to attach semantic
meaning to sounds. We ignore the output layer of our network and use the internal representation as
features for training classifiers, using a small amount of labeled sound data for the concepts of interest.
We pick a layer in the network to use as features and train a linear SVM. For multi-class classification,
we use a one-vs-all strategy. We perform cross-validation to pick the margin regularization hyper-
parameter. For robustness, we follow a standard data augmentation procedure where each training
sample is split into overlapping fixed length sound excerpts, which we compute features on and use
for training. During inference, we average predictions across all windows.

3.4   Implementation
Our approach is implemented in Torch7. We use the Adam [16] optimizer and a fixed learning rate of
0.001 and momentum term of 0.9 throughout our experiments. We experimented with several batch
sizes, and found 64 to produce good results. We initialized all the weights to zero mean Gaussian
noise with a standard deviation of 0.01. After every convolution, we use batch normalization [15]
and rectified linear activation units [17]. We train the network for 100, 000 iterations. Optimization
typically took 1 day on a GPU.
4     Experiments
Experimental Setup: We split the unlabeled video dataset into a training set and a held-out validation
set. We use 2, 000, 000 videos for training, and the remaining 140, 000 videos for validation. After
training the network, we use the hidden representation as a feature extractor for learning on smaller,


                                                    4
                                                                                Accuracy on
      Method            Accuracy                Method                       ESC-50 ESC-10
      RG [29]             69%                   SVM-MFCC [28]                 39.6%      67.5%
      LTT [21]            72%                   Convolutional Autoencoder 39.9%          74.3%
      RNH [30]            77%                   Random Forest [28]            44.3%      72.7%
      Ensemble [34]       78%                   Piczak ConvNet [27]           64.5%      81.0%
      SoundNet            88%                   SoundNet                     74.2%       92.2%
Table 3: Acoustic Scene Classification          Human Performance [28]        81.3%      95.7%
on DCASE: We evaluate classification         Table 4: Acoustic Scene Classification on ESC-50
accuracy on the DCASE dataset. By            and ESC-10: We evaluate classification accuracy on
leveraging large amounts of unlabeled        the ESC datasets. Results suggest that deep convolu-
video, SoundNet generally outperforms        tional sound networks trained with visual supervision
hand-crafted features by 10%.                on unlabeled data outperforms baselines.

labeled sound only datasets. We extract features for a given layer, and train an SVM on the task of
interest. For training the SVM, we use the standard training/test splits of the datasets. We report
classification accuracy.
Baselines:: In addition to published baselines on standard datasets, we explored an additional baseline
trained on our unlabeled videos. We experimented using a convolutional autoencoder for sound,
trained over our video dataset. We use an autoencoder with 4 encoder layers and 4 decoder layers. For
the encoder layers, we used the same first four convolutional layers as SoundNet. For the decoders,
we used a fractionally strided convolutional layers (in order to upsample instead of downsample).
Note that we experimented with deeper autoencoders, but they performed worse. We used mean
squared error for the reconstruction loss, and trained the autoencoders for several days.

4.1   Acoustic Scene Classification
We evaluate the SoundNet representation for acoustic scene classification. The aim in this task is to
categorize sound clips into one of the many acoustic scene categories. We use three standard, publicly
available datasets: DCASE Challenge[34], ESC-50 [28], and ESC-10 [28].
DCASE[34]: One of the tasks in the Detection and Classification of Acoustic Scenes and Events
Challenge (DCASE)[34] is to recognize scenes from natural sounds. In the challenge, there are 10
acoustic scene categories, 10 training examples per category, and 100 held-out testing examples.
Each example is a 30 seconds audio recording. The task is to categorize natural sounds into existing
10 acoustic scene categories. Multi-class classification accuracy is used as the performance metric.
ESC-50 and ESC-10 [28]: The ESC-50 dataset
is a collection of 2000 short (5 seconds) en-
vironmental sound recordings of equally bal-
anced 50 categories selected from 5 major
groups (animals, natural soundscapes, human
non-speech sounds, interior/domestic sounds,
and exterior/urban noises). Each category has
40 samples. The data is prearranged into 5 folds
and the accuracy results are reported as the mean
of 5 leave-one-fold-out evaluations. The per-
formance of untrained human participants on
this dataset is 81.3% [28]. ESC-10 is a subset
of ESC-50 which consists of 10 classes (dog
bark, rain, sea waves, baby cry, clock tic, per-
son sneeze, helicopter, chainsaw, rooster, and
fire cracking). The human performance on this
dataset is 95.7%.
We have two major evaluations on this section:
(a) comparison with the existing state of the art
results, (b) diagnostic performance evaluation      Figure 3: SoundNet confusions on ESC-50
of inner layers of SoundNet as generic features
for this task. In DCASE we used 5 second excerpts, and in ESC datasets we used 1 second windows.
In both evaluations a multi-class SVM (multiple one-vs all classifiers) is trained over extracted


                                                    5
                                              Accuracy on
 Comparison of SoundNet Model              ESC-50 ESC-10 Table 5: Ablation Analysis:
                 8 Layer, `2 Loss           47.8% 81.5%       We breakdown accuracy of
 Loss
                 8 Layer, KL Loss           72.9% 92.2%       various configurations using
                 8 Layer, ImageNet Only     69.5% 89.8%       pool5 from SoundNet trained
 Teacher Net     8 Layer, Places Only       71.1% 89.5%       with VGG. Results suggest that
                 8 Layer, Both              72.9% 92.2%       deeper convolutional sound net-
                 5 Layer, Scratch Init      65.0% 82.3%       works  trained with visual super-
 Depth and       8 Layer, Scratch Init      51.1% 75.5%       vision  on unlabeled data helps
 Visual Transfer 5 Layer, Unlabeled Video 66.1% 86.8%         recognition.
                 8 Layer, Unlabeled Video 72.9% 92.2%
 Dataset            Model               conv4 conv5 pool5 conv6 conv7 conv8
                    8 Layer, AlexNet     84%     85%      84%     83%        78%      68%
 DCASE [34]
                    8 Layer, VGG         77%     88%      88%     87%        84%      74%
                    8 Layer, AlexNet 66.0% 71.2% 74.2%            74%       63.8% 45.7%
 ESC50 [28]
                    8 Layer, VGG        66.0% 69.3% 72.9% 73.3% 59.8% 43.7%
Table 6: Which layer and teacher network gives better features? The performance comparison
of extracting features at different SoundNet layers on acoustic scene/object classification tasks.

SoundNet features. Same data augmentation procedure is also applied during testing and the mean
score of all sound excerpts is used as the final score of a test recording for any particular category.
Comparison to State-of-the-Art: Table 3 and 4 compare recognition performance of SoundNet
features versus previous state-of-the-art features on three datasets. In all cases SoundNet features
outperformed the existing results by around 10%. Interestingly, SoundNet features approach human
performance on ESC-10 dataset, however we stress that this dataset may be easy. We report the
confusion matrix across all folds on ESC-50 in Figure 3. The results suggest our approach obtains
very good performance on categories such as toilet flush (97% accuracy) or door knocks (95%
accuracy). Common confusions are laughing confused as hens, foot steps confused as door knocks,
and insects confused as washing machines.

4.2   Ablation Analysis

To better understand our approach, we perform an ablation analysis in Table 5 and Table 6.
Comparison of Loss and Teacher Net (Table 5): We tried training with different subsets of target
categories. In general, performance generally improves with increasing visual supervision. As
expected, our results suggest that using both ImageNet and Places networks as supervision performs
better than a single one. This indicates that progress in sound understanding may be furthered by
building stronger vision models. We also experimented with using `2 loss on the target outputs
instead of KL loss, which performed significantly worse.
Comparison of Network Depth (Table 5): We quantified the impact of network depth. We use five
layer version of SoundNet (instead of the full eight) as a feature extractor instead. The five-layer
SoundNet architecture performed 8% worse than the eight-layer architecture, suggesting depth is
helpful for sound understanding. Interestingly, the five-layer network still generally outperforms
previous state-of-the-art baselines, but the margin is less. We hypothesize even deeper networks may
perform better, which can be trained without significant over-fitting by leveraging large amounts of
unlabeled video.
Comparison of Supervision (Table 5): We also experimented with training the network without
video by using only the labeled target training set, which is relatively small (thousands of examples).
We simply change the network to output the class probabilities, and train it from random initialization
with a cross entropy loss. Hence, the only change is that this baseline does not use any unlabeled
video, allowing us to quantify the contribution of unlabeled video. The five layer SoundNet achieves
slightly better results than [27] which is also a convolutional network trained with same data but with
a different architecture, suggesting our five layer architecture is similar. Increasing the depth from
five layers to eight layers decreases the performance from 65% to 51%, probably because it overfits
to the small training set. However, when trained with visual transfer from unlabeled video, the eight
layer SoundNet achieves a significant gain of around 20% compared to the five layer version. This


                                                  6
      (a) t-SNE embedding of visual features               (b) t-SNE embedding of sound features
Figure 4: t-SNE embeddings using visual features and sound features (SoundNet conv7). The visual
features are concatenated fc7 features from the VGG networks for ImageNet and Places2. Note that
t-SNE embeddings do not use the class labels. Labels are only used during final visualization.
  Feature            sound     vision     vision+sound       Table 7: Multi-Modal Recognition: We
  8 Layer, conv7     32.4%     49.4%          51.4%          report classification accuracy on ∼ 4K la-
  8 Layer, conv8     32.3%     49.4%          50.5%          beled test videos over 44 categories.


suggests that unlabeled video is a powerful signal for sound understanding, and it can be acquired at
large enough scales to support training high-capacity deep networks.
Comparison of Layer and Teacher Network (Table 6): We analyze the discriminative performance
of each SoundNet layer. Generally, features from the pool5 layer gives the best performance. We
also compared different teacher networks for visual supervision (either VGGNet or AlexNet). The
results are inconclusive on which teacher network to use: VGG is a better teacher network for DCASE
while AlexNet is a better teacher network for ESC50.
4.3   Multi-Modal Recognition
In order to compare sound features with visual features on scene/object categorization, we annotated
additional 9,478 videos (vision+sound) which are not seen by the trained networks before. This new
dataset consists of 44 categories from 6 major groups of concepts (i.e. urban, nature, work/home,
music/entertainment, sports, and vehicles). It is annotated by Amazon Mechanical Turk workers. The
frequency of categories depend on natural occurrences on the web, hence unbalanced.
Vision vs. Sound Embeddings: In order to show the semantic relevance of the features, we per-
formed a two dimensional t-SNE [38] embedding and visualized our dataset in figure 4. The visual
features are concatenated fc7 features of the two VGG networks trained using ImageNet and Places2
datasets. We computed the visual features from uniformly selected 4 frames for each video and
computed the mean feature as the final visual representation. The sound features are the conv7
features extracted using SoundNet trained with VGG supervision. This visualizations suggests that
sound features alone also contain considerable amount of semantic information.
Object and Scene Classification: We also performed a quantitative comparison between sound
features and visual features. We used 60% of our dataset for training and the rest for the testing.
The chance level of the task is 2.2% and choosing always the most common category (i.e. music
performance) yields 14% accuracy. Similar to acoustic scene classification methods, we trained a
multi-class SVM over both sound and visual features individually and then jointly. The results are
displayed in Table 7. Visual features alone obtained an accuracy of 49.4%. The SoundNet features
obtained 32.4% accuracy. This suggests that even though sound is not as informative as vision, it still
contains considerable amount of discriminative information. Furthermore, sound and vision together
resulted in a modest improvement of 2% over vision only models.
4.4   Visualizations
In order to have a better insight on what network learned, we visualize its representation. Figure 5
displays the first 16 convolutional filters applied to the raw input audio. The learned filters are diverse,
including low and high frequencies, wavelet-like patterns, increasing and decreasing amplitude filters.
We also visualize some of the hidden units in the last hidden layer (conv7) of our sound representation


                                                     7
Figure 5: Learned filters in conv1: We visualize the filters for raw audio in the first layer of the
deep convolutional network.




          Baby Talk                  Bubbles                   Cheering                  Bird Chirps
Figure 6: What emerges in sound hidden units? We visualize some of the hidden units in the last
hidden layer of our sound representation by finding inputs that maximally activate a hidden unit.
Above, we illustrate what these units capture by showing the corresponding video frames. No vision
is used in this experiment; we only show frames for visualization purposes only.

by finding inputs that maximally activate a hidden unit. These visualization are displayed on Figure
6. Note that visual frames are not used during computation of activations; they are only included in
the figure for visualization purposes.

5   Conclusion
We propose to train deep sound networks (SoundNet) by transferring knowledge from established
vision networks and large amounts of unlabeled video. The synchronous nature of videos (sound +
vision) allow us to perform such a transfer which resulted in semantically rich audio representations
for natural sounds. Our results show that transfer with unlabeled video is a powerful paradigm for
learning sound representations. All of our experiments suggest that one may obtain better performance
simply by downloading more videos, creating deeper networks, and leveraging richer vision models.
Acknowledgements: We thank MIT TIG, especially Garrett Wollman, for helping store 26 TB of
video. We are grateful for the GPUs donated by NVidia. This work was supported by NSF grant
#1524817 to AT and the Google PhD fellowship to CV.

References
 [1] Yusuf Aytar and Andrew Zisserman. Tabula rasa: Model transfer for object category detection. In ICCV,
     2011.
 [2] Yusuf Aytar and Andrew Zisserman. Part level transfer regularization for enhancing exemplar svms. CVIU,
     2015.
 [3] Jimmy Ba and Rich Caruana. Do deep nets really need to be deep? In NIPS, 2014.
 [4] Daniele Barchiesi, Dimitrios Giannoulis, Dan Stowell, and Mark D Plumbley. Acoustic scene classification:
     Classifying environments from the sounds they produce. SPM, 2015.
 [5] Thierry Bertin-Mahieux, Daniel PW Ellis, Brian Whitman, and Paul Lamere. The million song dataset. In
     ISMIR, 2011.
 [6] Emre Cakir, Toni Heittola, Heikki Huttunen, and Tuomas Virtanen. Polyphonic sound event detection
     using multi label deep neural networks. In IJCNN, 2015.
 [7] Lluis Castrejon, Yusuf Aytar, Carl Vondrick, Hamed Pirsiavash, and Antonio Torralba. Learning aligned
     cross-modal representations from weakly aligned data. In CVPR, 2016.
 [8] Chao-Yeh Chen and Kristen Grauman. Watching unlabeled video helps learn new human actions from
     very few labeled snapshots. In CVPR, 2013.
 [9] Saurabh Gupta, Judy Hoffman, and Jitendra Malik. Cross modal distillation for supervision transfer. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:1507.00448, 2015.
[10] Awni Hannun, Carl Case, Jared Casper, Bryan Catanzaro, Greg Diamos, Erich Elsen, Ryan Prenger,
     Sanjeev Satheesh, Shubho Sengupta, Adam Coates, et al. Deep speech: Scaling up end-to-end speech
     recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.5567, 2014.
[11] Shawn Hershey, Sourish Chaudhuri, Daniel PW Ellis, Jort F Gemmeke, Aren Jansen, R Channing Moore,
     Manoj Plakal, Devin Platt, Rif A Saurous, Bryan Seybold, et al. Cnn architectures for large-scale audio
     classification. arXiv, 2016.


                                                      8
[12] Lars Hertel, Huy Phan, and Alfred Mertins. Comparing time and frequency domain for audio event
     recognition using deep learning. arXiv, 2016.
[13] Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeff Dean. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network. arXiv, 2015.
[14] Jing Huang and Brian Kingsbury. Audio-visual deep learning for noise robust speech recognition. In
     ICASSP, 2013.
[15] Sergey Ioffe and Christian Szegedy. Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training by reducing
     internal covariate shift. arXiv, 2015.
[16] Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
[17] Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Imagenet classification with deep convolutional
     neural networks. In NIPS, 2012.
[18] Daniel Kuettel and Vittorio Ferrari. Figure-ground segmentation by transferring window masks. In CVPR,
     2012.
[19] Yann LeCun, Léon Bottou, Yoshua Bengio, and Patrick Haffner. Gradient-based learning applied to
     document recognition. IEEE, 1998.
[20] Honglak Lee, Peter Pham, Yan Largman, and Andrew Y Ng. Unsupervised feature learning for audio
     classification using convolutional deep belief networks. In NIPS, 2009.
[21] David Li, Jason Tam, and Derek Toub. Auditory scene classification using machine learning techniques.
     AASP Challenge, 2013.
[22] Jonathan Long, Evan Shelhamer, and Trevor Darrell. Fully convolutional networks for semantic segmenta-
     tion. In CVPR, 2015.
[23] Ian McLoughlin, Haomin Zhang, Zhipeng Xie, Yan Song, and Wei Xiao. Robust sound event classification
     using deep neural networks. ASL, 2015.
[24] Jiquan Ngiam, Aditya Khosla, Mingyu Kim, Juhan Nam, Honglak Lee, and Andrew Y Ng. Multimodal
     deep learning. In ICML, 2011.
[25] Phuc Xuan Nguyen, Gregory Rogez, Charless Fowlkes, and Deva Ramamnan. The open world of
     micro-videos. arXiv, 2016.
[26] Andrew Owens, Phillip Isola, Josh McDermott, Antonio Torralba, Edward H Adelson, and William T
     Freeman. Visually indicated sounds. arXiv preprint arXiv:1512.08512, 2015.
[27] Karol J Piczak. Environmental sound classification with convolutional neural networks. In MLSP, 2015.
[28] Karol J Piczak. Esc: Dataset for environmental sound classification. In ACM Multimedia, 2015.
[29] Alain Rakotomamonjy and Gilles Gasso. Histogram of gradients of time-frequency representations for
     audio scene classification. TASLP, 2015.
[30] Guido Roma, Waldo Nogueira, and Perfecto Herrera. Recurrence quantification analysis features for
     environmental sound recognition. In WASPAA, 2013.
[31] Olga Russakovsky, Jia Deng, Hao Su, Jonathan Krause, Sanjeev Satheesh, Sean Ma, Zhiheng Huang,
     Andrej Karpathy, Aditya Khosla, Michael Bernstein, et al. Imagenet large scale visual recognition challenge.
     IJCV, 2015.
[32] Justin Salamon and Juan Pablo Bello. Unsupervised feature learning for urban sound classification. In
     ICASSP, 2015.
[33] Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image recogni-
     tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556, 2014.
[34] Dan Stowell, Dimitrios Giannoulis, Emmanouil Benetos, Mathieu Lagrange, and Mark D Plumbley.
     Detection and classification of acoustic scenes and events. TM, 2015.
[35] Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V Le. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. In
     NIPS, 2014.
[36] Bart Thomee, David A Shamma, Gerald Friedland, Benjamin Elizalde, Karl Ni, Douglas Poland, Damian
     Borth, and Li-Jia Li. Yfcc100m: The new data in multimedia research. Communications of the ACM,
     2016.
[37] Aaron Van den Oord, Sander Dieleman, and Benjamin Schrauwen. Deep content-based music recommen-
     dation. In NIPS, 2013.
[38] Laurens Van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton. Visualizing data using t-sne. JMLR, 2008.
[39] Carl Vondrick, Hamed Pirsiavash, and Antonio Torralba. Anticipating visual representations from unlabeled
     video. CVPR, 2016.
[40] Carl Vondrick, Hamed Pirsiavash, and Antonio Torralba. Generating videos with scene dynamics. NIPS,
     2016.
[41] Jacob Walker, Abhinav Gupta, and Martial Hebert. Dense optical flow prediction from a static image. In
     ICCV, 2015.
[42] Bolei Zhou, Agata Lapedriza, Jianxiong Xiao, Antonio Torralba, and Aude Oliva. Learning deep features
     for scene recognition using places database. In NIPS, 2014.




                                                       9
